
Date: Sun, 11 Jan 2009 16:09:45 +0000
From: andrew.wallace <andrew.wallace@...ketmail.com>
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk
Subject: Why are you against n3td3v?

We're a mailing list of government, business and academia folks pretty
much the same as here. We monitor threat reports and give analysis
from time to time on what's going on and offer advice to folks. Why
would you be against us?

I can't help if Robert Lemos, Neal Krawetz gave false reports about
n3td3v, that seems to have damaged us a lot and having to defend my
position constantly to a bunch of aliases on full-disclosure because
they believed something that was written in the media and had an
expectation and when that expectation couldn't be met, they thought
I'm a lie and a fake and the members of the n3td3v mailing list can't
be real.

I'm on the same side as you as is the members of the n3td3v mailing
list. We're good guys like you are so why all this fighting all the
time on full-disclosure?

There is a n3td3v group, the mailing list that is on Google Groups---
but not in the way it was reported in the media as being.

I don't know who Gobbles is have no connections to him don't want to
be like him or have association with hackers.

It's time this back and forward fighting stopped and we all worked at
a common goal to stop the hackers.

I have always been the person to collect intelligence on the hackers
and pass them to the authorities, this all started when I was 18 on
Yahoo where I got to be friends with many folks involved with
protecting Yahoo's security and passed them important intelligence
about what was going on.

I moved on from Yahoo and started the Google Group for my own self
purpose to read all the mailing lists in one place that I didn't need
to keep logging into my email account all the time to read.

Gradually from there I noticed members had started to join, although
when I started the group I hadn't thought about members and people
joining, it was completely accidental to me that the group started to
form, they must of enjoyed the same intelligence I did. That
intelligence was open-source intelligence reports from
full-disclosure, bugtraq, media website news letters and breaking news
alert email services from places such as the BBC.

As i've grown up since I was 18 my interests matured now I hope to get
into a proper intelligence agency such as MI5 to continue my work as
an intelligencer in a professional capacity.

I'm a good guy not like is being made out to be by some folks on
full-disclosure and by Robert Lemos and Neal Krawetz. What they said
about me was not only damaging to my online presence but was damaging
to me in real life as well. This is because I was part of an ethical
hacking course where I left to goto and then the report about n3td3v
appeared and it made me mad because it made me out to be a hacker that
was withholding zero-day and other stuff was written about me.

It made me mad because i'm the opposite of what I was made to look by
Neal Krawetz and Robert Lemos, they didn't even contact me for an
interview to get my side of the story, it was a one sided malicious
report into someone they didn't research into properly before reaching
their conclusions.

What i'm saying to you is to back off now not only are you not making
any difference to me but you are only ruining the full-disclosure
mailing list by the constant back and forward arguing thats going on,
because you don't think that n3td3v is real or meet your expectation.

I have recently been looking at people who may be spying in
corporations and in government departments as well as monitoring
hackers who have been passing on programming knowledge to people such
as Akill's social circle of friends who was a bot net herder who is
now likely to get work in the secret intelligence service industry.
There are still elements of Akill's group that can reform without him
being a part of it anymore and that kind of thing has to be monitored
by folks.

It's all about getting inbetween the hackers and passing the
information to the authorities or leaving the intelligence to be
picked up on the wire tap as folks are being spoke with.

n3td3v isn't at the moment a professional intelligence group but will
be in the future if and when i'm employed into the British
intelligence community if they choose to accept my application form.

n3td3v mailing list group is now a self driven mailing list of threat
reports and analysis of what's going on, in the future it may evolve.
There are no 'kids' on it, the membership base is of information
security amatuers and professionals. The group is open membership so
potentially anyone can join, but any spam or horse play will be
removed.

I believe in being open as possible about intelligence, of course
certain elements of secret intelligence agency's need to be kept
secret but I think the future is to be more transparent with the
population about what's going on and professional agency's have
started to do this especially as far as their recruitment drive is
going. Now more than ever they are releasing more information about
the workings of their agency's and no longer do people need to wait
for a tap on the shoulder to be employed. You can goto their web site
and apply for a job https://www.mi5careers.gov.uk/ this is what i'm
going to do as well.

My mailing list that I formed doesn't have many active posters on it
as the membership base is likely to be intelligencers like me leeching
the information that various people post on, like full-disclosure the
majority of the list never talk the same happens on n3td3v mailing
list group.

If you want to alert our community of something thats going on you
can, because the right people are subscribed: government, business and
academia.

We may not talk but we are listening.

Andrew
Intelligencer &
Founder of n3td3v

_______________________________________________
Full-Disclosure - We believe in it.
Charter: http://lists.grok.org.uk/full-disclosure-charter.html
Hosted and sponsored by Secunia - http://secunia.com/
