
Date: Sat, 4 Oct 2008 01:37:33 +0100
From: n3td3v <xploitable@...il.com>
To: n3td3v <n3td3v@...glegroups.com>, full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk
Subject: Re: Marcus Sachs wants hackers put into the same
	category as "war on terror"

sachs, he's got $30 million, now he wants another $100 million, how
many more million does he want? he uses the cia to help coordinate the
propaganda efforts, to support his application for money ! he's got it
all wrapped up, him and the cia. the dodgy dossier is coming out in
november, if the dodgy dossier isn't dodgy enough, sachs won't get his
$100 million. how dodgy will he make the november dodgy dossier? very
dodgy i predict. we can expect a host of recommendations based on lies
that the bad guys can take down satellite communications and bgp
disruption. are any of the technical and non-technical elite going to
fall for his efforts to ramp up cyber to get "war on terror" status
and funding? was estonia and georgia false flags enough to meet his
financial criteria? or will there be more phone calls to the cia, for
more youtube videos, darkened cities press releases and cyber attacks
on small countries that russia gets blamed for? ha ha ha, we'll see
won't we, it will be interesting to see what they come up with, as
long as they don't think the technical and non-technical elite are
falling for any of this bullshit. its been amazing how far sachs has
got before i found out about him via his blackhat 2008 youtube video.
if it wasn't for the blackhat 2008 youtube video, i wouldn't know that
marcus sachs even existed or what his agenda was for him to get lots
of money, and being helped to do this by the cia. im nobody special,
im largely a guy who has been on the scene since 1999, i sit in my
bedroom with no life, continually monitoring everything thats going on
for 9/10 years. im not a security professional with a high paid job, i
dont benefit from saying this stuff apart from it being my self belief
that people are being cheated out of money, and that there is more
going on in the world than you read on cnn. im a whitehat, who is
patriotic towards britian, the country i live in, i dont like to be
lied to by folks over the atlantic, just so sachs can become king of
cyber. i dont care if you wire tap me, because im just a bedroom
person, im nobody important, i have no job, money or social life, you
won't have much wire to tap. go fuck yourself sachs, you can cheat
your own citizens, but im just laughing at you! mi5 are probably
monitoring your phone calls and they know everything, ha ha ha. you
are probably going to get my google group shut down because you don't
like me bitching about you, but i dont care about the google group
because i'll just set up a new one if you delete it and i'll get 4400
members again, ha ha ha. you can sit on nanog, hiding away from the
other mailing lists, but i dont care. im watching everything you type
on nanog, and so is everyone else. you don't consult the public about
your applications for money, and you don't tell the public what the
$30 million is being spent on. you have closed door discussions with
your own people, you never come out and talk to the bedroom people
about what you're upto, because its the bedroom people you're the most
scared of, because they don't have a job title or career on the line
if they diss you, we can freestyle about everything you're upto.
because of you, hackers will be put in jail for 60 years, just for
accessing systems with blank passwords set, when it should really be 4
years. this is because you decided to pretend to the government that
cyber security should be part of the "war on terror", just so you
could get in the high priority funding bracket. this is not fair that
you cheat the bedroom people, that you don't keep them informed of
what you are doing, and what money is being spent on, and why is the
cia launching cyber attacks on estonia and georgia? just to let your
application for money get ok'd by people who don't even know what a
firewall is. is this fair, is it right to cheat and deceive? i will
leave you now sachs, ive highlighted what you're upto enough, people
will read the dodgy dossier in november and say, n3td3v was right,
n3td3v has worked out the truth about you. all from my bedroom...good
night.

_______________________________________________
Full-Disclosure - We believe in it.
Charter: http://lists.grok.org.uk/full-disclosure-charter.html
Hosted and sponsored by Secunia - http://secunia.com/
