
Date: Mon, 25 Jul 2011 08:46:54 -0400
From: Григорий Братислава <musntlive@...il.com>
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk
Subject: Advisory to is expose Sabu others is Pizdas

Hello Full Disclosure!!!

Is want to warn you about is group is called Anonymous is Lulzsec and
is hackers yes. Is be Lulzsec leader Sabu is now for to be named and
is was Hector who say "disinformation be my game" but is MustnLive now
is prove how is Sabu is really is Hugo Carvalho is once and for all.

Security people and is FBI when is you work on is Internet for so many
is years, is common sense is to see news. This is you cannot avoid
yes, seeing news when working 24x7x365. Not only is true but is also
is when someone is say see your name is associated with is script
kiddie pizda shit fuckers Lulzsec, is you will take is steps to
"clear" is your name.

Is now we come to psychology 101. For if you work all time on
Internet, someone will is have to call you to say: "Hector Carvalho,
you pizda, your is name is under attack" this is will be your
coworker, your girlfriend and for you is Transformer hackers
[Rutkowska] - your boyfriend - someone is will harass you. You is will
know and is you will say: "for why has thou forsaken me to be called
hacker Sabu" is you will go immediate to Portugese SIS not is local
pizda cops and is say: "No I is not the pizda Sabu, I for has proof!"
This is similar to Hugo Carvalho, you is will publicly state you is
have nothing to do with Lulzsuck." Is you do so to cover your banana.
Is you forget one thing Hugo pizda, is not local Portuguese police is
you need to inform puto, is SIS. Is that is be your downfall

Pizda attackers like Sabu is high on arrogance. Is must think because
is FBI or SIS is not knock down door yet, is Hugo all safe and is
cozy. Is what Hugo not know is that is authorities is process to make
subpoena for this is take long time. Is not same day process, this is
not same day photo service. Authorities is must take is steps to weed
out no good information, is surveillance you Hugo. Is this be your is
downfall.

Poor Hugo :( Is all know who you are and is matter of only time. Since
is your friends Ryan and TFlow is arrest is maybe you is stupid to is
not read news: "A 16-year-old Londoner going by the online nickname
"T-Flow" or "Tflow" spent between 12 and 24 hours in custody" - - -
"The four individuals aged 17 to 35 were released "because they
cooperated with the investigation," according to Friday's DutchNews.nl
report. The four reportedly "made statements about their hacking
activities and involvement with hackers""
[http://www.pcmag.com/article2/0,2817,2388949,00.asp]

So is while you [Hugo] is talk a lot of hackercrap
[http://twitter.com/#!/anonymouSabu/status/95248544621015040] is every
bit of arrogantcy information is will bring you down. Is you can use
proxies all is you want dummy, is however, sqlite will lead to truths
as is will Paypal and is GoDaddy is transactions. Is you forget that
in is America, is this the law to keep data and is records. Is easy to
go to backup records yes and is further expose you. Is you also can
retrieve information on is BSD too Hugo even with is TrueCrypt puto,
is what forensics snipers must be to for.

In is with this is I say to you Hugo - Camp X Ray is waiting Hugo,
otherwise is you can drink antifreeze on Youtube for us to laugh at
your is stupidity. Tempo está passando idiota, apenas uma questão de
dias antes que você andou na frente dos meios de comunicação como um
criminal. Is you feel me my nigg3r? Now is run and tell your little
brother papi chulo is will be assraped in United States. Is also your
excessive use of Portuguese idiota. Puerto Ricans no speak it.


http://internationalextraditionblog.files.wordpress.com/2011/03/portugal-protocol-eu.pdf

ARTICLE I.

It is agreed that the Government of the United States of America and
the Government of His Most Faithful Majesty the King of Portugal and
of the Algarves shall, upon mutual requisition duly made as herein
provided, deliver up to justice any person who may be charged with or
may have been convicted of any of the crimes specified in Article II
of this Convention committed within the jurisdiction of one of the
Contracting Parties while said person was actually within such
jurisdiction when the crime was committed, and who shall seek an
asylum or shall be found within the territories of the other, provided
that such surrender shall take place only upon such evidence of
criminality, as according to the laws of the place where the fugitive
or person so charged shall be found, would justify his apprehension
and commitment for trial if the crime or offence had been there
committed.

ARTICLE II.

Persons shall be delivered up according to the provisions of this
Convention, who shall have been charged with or convicted of any of
the following crimes:

18. Obtaining money, valuable securities or other property by false
pretenses or receiving any money, valuable securities or other
property knowing the same to have been unlawfully obtained, where the
amount of money or the value of the property so obtained or received
exceeds two hundred dollars or the equivalent in Portuguese currency.

19. Perjury or subornation of perjury.

20. Fraud or breach of trust by a bailee, banker, agent, factor,
trustee, executor, administrator, guardian, director or officer of any
company or corporation, or by anyone in any fiduciary position, where
the amount of money or the value of the property misappropriated
exceeds two hundred dollars or the equivalent in Portuguese currency.

21. Crimes and offences against the laws of both countries for the
suppression of slavery and slave trading.

22. The extradition is also to take place for the participation in any
of the aforesaid crimes as an accessory before or after the fact,
provided such participation be punishable by imprisonment by the laws
of both Contracting Parties.

http://internationalextraditionblog.com/2011/06/02/portugal-extradition-treaty-with-the-united-states/

_______________________________________________
Full-Disclosure - We believe in it.
Charter: http://lists.grok.org.uk/full-disclosure-charter.html
Hosted and sponsored by Secunia - http://secunia.com/
