
Date: Wed, 25 Mar 2009 17:00:00 +0100
From: Cisco Systems Product Security Incident Response Team <psirt@...co.com>
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk
Cc: psirt@...co.com
Subject: Cisco Security Advisory: Cisco IOS Software
	Multiple Features IP Sockets Vulnerability

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA1

Cisco Security Advisory: Cisco IOS Software Multiple Features IP
Sockets Vulnerability

Advisory ID: cisco-sa-20090325-ip

http://www.cisco.com/warp/public/707/cisco-sa-20090325-ip.shtml

Revision 1.0

For Public Release 2009 March 25 1600 UTC (GMT)

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------

Summary
=======

A vulnerability in the handling of IP sockets can cause devices to be
vulnerable to a denial of service attack when any of several features
of Cisco IOS  Software are enabled. A sequence of specially crafted
TCP/IP packets could cause any of the following results:

  * The configured feature may stop accepting new connections or
    sessions.
  * The memory of the device may be consumed.
  * The device may experience prolonged high CPU utilization.
  * The device may reload.

Cisco has released free software updates that address this
vulnerability.

Several mitigation strategies are outlined in the "Workarounds"
section of this advisory.

This advisory is posted at 
http://www.cisco.com/warp/public/707/cisco-sa-20090325-ip.shtml

Note: The March 25, 2009, Cisco IOS Security Advisory bundled
publication includes eight Security Advisories. All of the advisories
address vulnerabilities in Cisco IOS Software. Each advisory lists
the releases that correct the vulnerability or vulnerabilities in the
advisory. The following table lists releases that correct all Cisco
IOS Software vulnerabilities that have been published in Cisco
Security Advisories on March 25, 2009, or earlier.

http://www.cisco.com/warp/public/707/cisco-sa-20090325-bundle.shtml

Individual publication links are listed below:

  * Cisco IOS cTCP Denial of Service Vulnerability
    http://www.cisco.com/warp/public/707/cisco-sa-20090325-ctcp.shtml

  * Cisco IOS Software Multiple Features IP Sockets Vulnerability
    http://www.cisco.com/warp/public/707/cisco-sa-20090325-ip.shtml

  * Cisco IOS Software Mobile IP and Mobile IPv6 Vulnerabilities
    http://www.cisco.com/warp/public/707/cisco-sa-20090325-mobileip.shtml

  * Cisco IOS Software Secure Copy Privilege Escalation Vulnerability
    http://www.cisco.com/warp/public/707/cisco-sa-20090325-scp.shtml

  * Cisco IOS Software Session Initiation Protocol Denial of Service
    Vulnerability
    http://www.cisco.com/warp/public/707/cisco-sa-20090325-sip.shtml

  * Cisco IOS Software Multiple Features Crafted TCP Sequence
    Vulnerability
    http://www.cisco.com/warp/public/707/cisco-sa-20090325-tcp.shtml

  * Cisco IOS Software Multiple Features Crafted UDP Packet
    Vulnerability
    http://www.cisco.com/warp/public/707/cisco-sa-20090325-udp.shtml

  * Cisco IOS Software WebVPN and SSLVPN Vulnerabilities
    http://www.cisco.com/warp/public/707/cisco-sa-20090325-webvpn.shtml

Affected Products
=================

Vulnerable Products
+------------------

Devices that are running affected versions of Cisco IOS Software and
Cisco IOS XE Software are affected if they are running any of the
following features. Details about confirming whether the affected
feature is enabled on a device are in the "Details" section of this
advisory.

  * Cisco Unified Communications Manager Express
  * SIP Gateway Signaling Support Over Transport Layer Security (TLS)
    Transport
  * Secure Signaling and Media Encryption
  * Blocks Extensible Exchange Protocol (BEEP)
  * Network Admission Control HTTP Authentication Proxy
  * Per-user URL Redirect for EAPoUDP, Dot1x, and MAC Authentication
    Bypass
  * Distributed Director with HTTP Redirects
  * DNS (TCP mode only)

To determine the Cisco IOS Software release that is running on a
Cisco product, administrators can log in to the device and issue the
"show version" command to display the system banner. The system
banner confirms that the device is running Cisco IOS Software by
displaying text similar to "Cisco Internetwork Operating System
Software" or "Cisco IOS Software." The image name displays in
parentheses, followed by "Version" and the Cisco IOS Software release
name. Other Cisco devices do not have the "show version" command or
may provide different output.

The following example identifies a Cisco product that is running
Cisco IOS Software Release 12.3(26) with an installed image name of
C2500-IS-L:

    Router#show version
    Cisco Internetwork Operating System Software
    IOS (tm) 2500 Software (C2500-IS-L), Version 12.3(26), RELEASE SOFTWARE (fc2)
    Technical Support: http://www.cisco.com/techsupport
    Copyright (c) 1986-2008 by cisco Systems, Inc.
    Compiled Mon 17-Mar-08 14:39 by dchih

    <output truncated>

The following example shows a product that is running Cisco IOS
Software Release 12.4(20)T with an image name of
C1841-ADVENTERPRISEK9-M:

    Router#show version
    Cisco IOS Software, 1841 Software (C1841-ADVENTERPRISEK9-M), Version 12.4(20)T, RELEASE SOFTWARE (fc3)
    Technical Support: http://www.cisco.com/techsupport
    Copyright (c) 1986-2008 by Cisco Systems, Inc.
    Compiled Thu 10-Jul-08 20:25 by prod_rel_team

    <output truncated>

Additional information about Cisco IOS Software release naming
conventions is available in "White Paper: Cisco IOS Reference Guide"
at the following link: http://www.cisco.com/warp/public/620/1.html

Products Confirmed Not Vulnerable
+--------------------------------

The following product is not affected by this vulnerability:

  * Cisco IOS XR Software

No other Cisco products or features configured in Cisco IOS or Cisco
IOS XE Software are currently known to be affected by this
vulnerability.

Details
========

For successful exploitation of this vulnerability, the TCP three-way
handshake must be completed to the associated TCP port number(s) for
any of the features described in this section.

Cisco Unified Communications Manager Express
+-------------------------------------------

The following configurations are vulnerable for different Cisco
Unified Communications Manager Express services:

A certificate authority proxy function (CAPF) server has been
configured.

The following example shows a vulnerable CAPF server configuration:

    capf-server
     auth-mode null-string
     cert-enroll-trustpoint root password 1 104D000A061843595F
     trustpoint-label cme_cert
     source-addr 10.0.0.1

The default TCP port used for CAPF server is 3804.

Further information about CAPF-server is in the Cisco Unified
Communications Manager Express System Administrator Guide at 
http://www.cisco.com/en/US/docs/voice_ip_comm/cucme/admin/configuration/guide/cmeauth.html#wp1085744

Telephony-service security parameters have been configured.

If the telephony-service security parameters have been configured
with "device-security-mode", the device is vulnerable. The following
example shows three vulnerable configurations for telephony-service
security parameters:

    ephone 1
     device-security-mode encrypted

    ephone 2
     device-security-mode authenticated

    ephone 3
     device-security-mode none

The TCP port used is defined with the "ip source-address <address>
port <port-number>" telephony-service configuration command.

Further information about Telephony-service security parameters is in
the Cisco Unified Communications Manager Express System Administrator
Guide at 
http://www.cisco.com/en/US/docs/voice_ip_comm/cucme/admin/configuration/guide/cmeauth.html#wp1080079

The global telephony-service or call-manager-fallback command has
been configured.

Any Cisco IOS configuration with the global "telephony-service" or
"call-manager-fallback" command is vulnerable if any subcommands are
in the telephony-service or call-manager-fallback configuration mode.
The following examples show vulnerable configurations:

    telephony-service
     ip source-address 192.168.0.1 port 2011

or

    call-manager-fallback
     ip source-address 192.168.0.1 port 2011

The TCP port used is defined with the "ip source-address <address>
port <port-number>" configuration command.

Further information about telephony service and call-manager-fallback
is in the Cisco Unified Communications Manager Express System
Administrator Guide at 
http://www.cisco.com/en/US/docs/voice_ip_comm/cucme/admin/configuration/guide/cmesystm.html

SIP Gateway Signaling Support over TLS Transport
+----------------------------------------------

Note: For customers with devices enabled with SIP, also consult the
document "Cisco Security Advisory: Cisco IOS Session Initiation
Protocol Denial of Service Vulnerability" at the following link 
http://www.cisco.com/warp/public/707/cisco-sa-20090325-sip.html

Devices that are configured for SIP gateway signaling support over
TLS transport are vulnerable. The following examples show vulnerable
configurations:

    voice service voip
     sip
      session transport tcp tls
      url sips

- -- or --

    dial-peer voice 3456 voip
     voice-class sip url sips
     session protocol sipv2
     session transport tcp tls

For the SIP gateway signaling support over TLS transport to function
correctly, administrators must first configure a trustpoint using the
following configuration:

    sip-ua
         crypto signaling default trustpoint example_trustpoint_name

The default TCP port used for the SIP gateway signaling support over
TLS transport feature is 5061.

Further information about Cisco IOS SIP gateway signaling support
over TLS transport is in the Cisco IOS Software Release 12.4T feature
guide at 
http://www.cisco.com/en/US/docs/ios/12_4t/12_4t11/FeatTLS.html

Secure Signaling and Media Encryption
+------------------------------------

A device is vulnerable if it is configured with the Media and
Signaling Encryption (SRTP/TLS) on DSP Farm Conferencing feature or
with Secure Signaling and Media Encryption for analog phones with
Skinny Call Control Protocol (SCCP).

The following examples show three different vulnerable secure DSP
farm configurations. Several other parts are required for a full
configuration, such as certificates and SCCP configuration, but these
parts have been excluded for brevity.

    dspfarm profile 2 transcode security
     trustpoint 2851ClientMina
     codec g711ulaw
     codec g711alaw
     codec g729ar8
     codec g729abr8
     codec gsmfr
     codec g729r8
     codec g729br8
     maximum sessions 3
     associate application SCCP

    dspfarm profile 3 conference security
     trustpoint sec2800-cfb
     codec g711ulaw
     codec g711alaw
     codec g729ar8
     codec g729abr8
     codec g729r8
     codec g729br8
     maximum sessions 2
     associate application SCCP

    dspfarm profile 5 mtp security
     trustpoint 2851ClientMina
     codec g711alaw
     maximum sessions hardware 1
     associate application SCCP

The default TCP port used for the Media and Signaling Encryption on
DSP Farm Conferencing feature is 2443.

Further information about the Media and Signaling Encryption on DSP
Farm Conferencing feature is in the "Cisco IOS Software Release 12.4
Special and Early Deployments feature guide" at the following link
http://www.cisco.com/en/US/docs/ios/12_4t/12_4t15/itsdsp.html

The following output shows the relevant section of Secure Signaling
and Media Encryption for analog phones and is a vulnerable
configuration (Several other parts are required for a full
configuration, such as certificates, SCCP configuration, and dial
peers):


    !--- The following lines show SCCP Telephony Control Application 
    !--- (STCAPP) security enabled at the system level:

    stcapp ccm-group 1
    stcapp security trustpoint analog
    stcapp security mode encrypted
    stcapp

    <-- output removed for brevity -->

    dial-peer voice 5002 pots
    service stcapp

    !--- The following line shows the security mode configured on the 
    !--- dial peer.

    security mode authenticated
    port 2/1

The default TCP port used for Media and Signaling Encryption for
analog phones is 2443.

Further information about Media and Signaling Encryption for analog
phones is in the "Supplementary Services Features for FXS Ports on
Cisco IOS Voice Gateways Configuration Guide, Release 12.4T" at the
following link 
http://www.cisco.com/en/US/docs/ios/voice/fxs/configuration/guide/fsxsecur.html

Blocks Extensible Exchange Protocol
+----------------------------------

Any configuration or executable command that leverages Blocks
Extensible Exchange Protocol (BEEP) as a transport protocol is
vulnerable. The following example shows the vulnerable configuration
of the feature NETCONF over BEEP. NETCONF over BEEP using SASL is
also vulnerable.

    crypto key generate rsa general-keys
    crypto pki trustpoint my_trustpoint
    enrollment url http://10.2.3.3:80
    subject-name CN=dns_name_of_host.com
    revocation-check none

    crypto pki authenticate my_trustpoint
    crypto pki enroll my_trustpoint

    line vty 0 15
    netconf lock-time 60
    netconf max-sessions 16

    netconf beep initiator host1 23 user my_user password
       my_password encrypt my_trustpoint
    reconnect-time 60

    netconf beep listener 23 sasl user1 encrypt my_trustpoint

The TCP port used is defined with the "netconf beep initiator" and
"netconf beep listener" configuration commands.

Further information about NETCONF over BEEP is in the "Cisco IOS
Software Release 12.4T feature guide" at the following link 
http://www.cisco.com/en/US/docs/ios/12_4t/12_4t11/htnetbe.html#wp1049404

The BEEP executable commands "bingd" and "bingng" could cause this
vulnerability to be triggered when they are invoked. The following
shows an example of these commands being executed:

    bingng device 192.168.0.1 23
    bingd device 23

Network Admission Control HTTP Authentication Proxy
+--------------------------------------------------

Devices configured with Network Admission Control HTTP Authentication
Proxy are vulnerable. For the device to be vulnerable the
authentication proxy rule must exist and be applied to an interface.

The following configuration creates an authentication proxy rule.

    ip admission name example-ap-rule-name proxy http

The following configuration attaches the authentication proxy rule
(created in the previous example) to an interface.

    interface GigabitEthernet 0/0
     ip admission example-ap-rule-name

The default TCP port used for Network Admission Control HTTP
Authentication Proxy is 80.

Further information about Network Admission Control HTTP
Authentication Proxy is in the "Cisco IOS Security Configuration
Guide, Release 12.4" at the following link 
http://www.cisco.com/en/US/docs/ios/security/configuration/guide/sec_net_admssn_ctrl_ps6350_TSD_Products_Configuration_Guide_Chapter.html#wp1053957

Per-user URL Redirect for EAPoUDP, Dot1x, and MAC Authentication Bypass
+----------------------------------------------------------------------

Devices that have URL redirect feature configured are vulnerable. URL
redirect is supported for EAP over UDP (EAPoUDP), Dot1x and MAC
Authentication Bypass (MAB) authentication mechanisms. The URL
redirect configuration can either be on the server or set up as part
of a locally defined profile or policy. Both configurations are
vulnerable. A device is vulnerable with either of the following
configurations.

URL Redirect Feature Enabled for EAPoUDP
+---------------------------------------

The URL redirect feature is enabled for EAPoUDP with the following
global configuration command:

    ip admission name <EAPoUDP-rule-name> eapoudp

The following configuration attaches the EAPoUDP rule (created in the
previous example) to an interface.

    ip admission name <EAPoUDP-rule-name>

URL Redirect Feature Enabled for Dot1x and MAB
+---------------------------------------------

The URL redirect feature for both Dot1x and MAB are vulnerable and
will have a URL redirect AV pair on the RADIUS server defined in a
method that is similar to the following:

    url-redirect="http://example.com"
    url-redirect="urlacl"

For the Dot1x and MAB URL redirect feature to work successfully on
the switch, the minimum following configuration would also be
required. There is no interface-specific configuration for URL
redirect. Basically the interface has to be configured for Dot1x/MAB.

    ip http {server | secure-server}
    ip device tracking

The default TCP port used for per-user URL redirect for EAPoUDP,
Dot1x, and MAB is 80 and 443.

Further information about per-user URL redirect for EAPoUDP, Dot1x,
and MAB is in the "Catalyst 4500 Series Switch Software Configuration
Guide, 12.2(50)SG" at the following link 
http://www.cisco.com/en/US/docs/switches/lan/catalyst4500/12.2/50sg/configuration/guide/dot1x.html#wp1311079

Distributed Director with HTTP Redirects
+---------------------------------------

A device is vulnerable if Distributed Director is configured with
HTTP redirects. The following example shows a vulnerable
configuration:

    ip director ip-address 192.168.0.1

The default TCP port used for distributed director with HTTP redirect
is 53.

Further information about Distributed Director with HTTP redirects is
in "Distributed Director Configuration Example Overview" at the
following link 
http://www.cisco.com/en/US/products/hw/contnetw/ps813/products_tech_note09186a00801fa9dd.shtml#topic8b

DNS
+--

Devices that are configured with the Cisco IOS DNS feature are
vulnerable. A pure DNS over UDP implementation is not vulnerable. See
the "Workarounds" section of this advisory for information about
filtering DNS over TCP traffic to the device. If any of the commands
in the following example appear in the device configuration, the
device is vulnerable:

    ip dns server
    ip dns primary example.com soa www.example.com admin@...mple.com
    ip dns spoofing 192.168.0.1

The default TCP port used for DNS is 53.

Further information about Cisco IOS DNS is in the "Cisco IOS IP
Addressing Services Configuration Guide, Release 12.4" at the
following link 
http://www.cisco.com/en/US/docs/ios/ipaddr/configuration/guide/iad_config_dns_ps6350_TSD_Products_Configuration_Guide_Chapter.html

This vulnerability is documented in the following Cisco Bug ID:
CSCsm27071 and has been assigned the Common Vulnerabilities and
Exposures (CVE) identifiers CVE-2009-0630.

Vulnerability Scoring Details
=============================

Cisco has provided scores for the vulnerabilities in this advisory
based on the Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS). The CVSS
scoring in this Security Advisory is done in accordance with CVSS
version 2.0.

CVSS is a standards-based scoring method that conveys vulnerability
severity and helps determine urgency and priority of response.

Cisco has provided a base and temporal score. Customers can then
compute environmental scores to assist in determining the impact of
the vulnerability in individual networks.

Cisco has provided an FAQ to answer additional questions regarding
CVSS at

http://www.cisco.com/web/about/security/intelligence/cvss-qandas.html

Cisco has also provided a CVSS calculator to help compute the
environmental impact for individual networks at

http://intellishield.cisco.com/security/alertmanager/cvss

CSCsm27071: Cisco IOS Software Multiple Features IP Sockets

CVSS Base Score - 7.8

 Access Vector           - Network
 Access Complexity       - Low
 Authentication          - None
 Confidentiality Impact  - None
 Integrity Impact        - None
 Availability Impact     - Complete

CVSS Temporal Score - 6.4

 Exploitability          - Functional
 Remediation Level       - Official-Fix
 Report Confidence       - Confirmed

Impact
======

Successful exploitation of the vulnerability may result in the any of
the following occurring:

  * The configured feature may stop accepting new connections or
    sessions.
  * The memory of the device may be consumed.
  * The device may experience prolonged high CPU utilization.
  * The device may reload.

Repeated attempts to exploit this vulnerability could result in a
sustained DoS condition.

Software Versions and Fixes
===========================

When considering software upgrades, also consult 
http://www.cisco.com/go/psirt and any subsequent advisories to 
determine exposure and a complete upgrade solution.

In all cases, customers should exercise caution to be certain the
devices to be upgraded contain sufficient memory and that current
hardware and software configurations will continue to be supported
properly by the new release. If the information is not clear, contact
the Cisco Technical Assistance Center (TAC) or your contracted
maintenance provider for assistance.

Each row of the Cisco IOS software table (below) names a Cisco IOS
release train. If a given release train is vulnerable, then the
earliest possible releases that contain the fix (along with the
anticipated date of availability for each, if applicable) are listed
in the "First Fixed Release" column of the table. The "Recommended
Release" column indicates the releases which have fixes for all the
published vulnerabilities at the time of this Advisory. A device
running a release in the given train that is earlier than the release
in a specific column (less than the First Fixed Release) is known to
be vulnerable. Cisco recommends upgrading to a release equal to or
later than the release in the "Recommended Releases" column of the
table.

+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
|   Major    |          Availability of Repaired Releases           |
|  Release   |                                                      |
|------------+------------------------------------------------------|
| Affected   |                                     | Recommended    |
| 12.0-Based | First Fixed Release                 | Release        |
| Releases   |                                     |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.0       | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.0DA     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2DA   | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.0DB     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.0DC     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.0S      | 12.0(32)S12                         | 12.0(32)S12    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.0SC     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.0S    | 12.0(32)S12    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.0SL     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.0S    | 12.0(32)S12    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.0SP     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.0ST     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.0S    | 12.0(32)S12    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.0SX     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.0S    | 12.0(32)S12    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.0SY     | 12.0(32)SY8                         | 12.0(32)SY8    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.0SZ     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.0S    | 12.0(32)S12    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.0T      | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.0W      | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.0WC     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.0WT     | Not Vulnerable                      |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.0XA     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.0XB     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.0XC     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.0XD     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.0XE     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.0XF     | Not Vulnerable                      |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.0XG     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.0XH     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            | Releases prior to 12.0(4)XI2 are    | 12.4(18e)      |
|            | vulnerable, release 12.0(4)XI2 and  |                |
| 12.0XI     | later are not vulnerable; first     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            | fixed in 12.4                       | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.0XJ     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.0XK     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.0XL     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.0XM     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.0XN     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.0XQ     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.0XR     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.0XS     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.0XT     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.0XV     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| Affected   |                                     | Recommended    |
| 12.1-Based | First Fixed Release                 | Release        |
| Releases   |                                     |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.1       | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.1AA     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.1AX     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2SE   | 12.2(44)SE6    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.1(22)EA13   |
| 12.1AY     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.1EA   |                |
|            |                                     | 12.2(44)SE6    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.1(22)EA13   |
| 12.1AZ     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.1EA   |                |
|            |                                     | 12.2(44)SE6    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.1CX     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.1DA     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2DA   | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.1DB     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.1DC     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.1E      | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2SXF  | 12.2(18)SXF16  |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.1EA     | 12.1(22)EA13                        | 12.1(22)EA13   |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.1EB     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.2(33)SCB1   |
| 12.1EC     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.3BC   |                |
|            |                                     | 12.3(23)BC6    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.1EO     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.1EU     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2SG   | 12.2(31)SGA9   |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.1EV     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.1EW     | Vulnerable; migrate to 12.2SGA      |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.1EX     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.1EY     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.1EZ     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2SXF  | 12.2(18)SXF16  |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.1GA     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.1GB     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.1T      | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.1XA     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.1XB     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.1XC     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.1XD     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.1XE     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.1XF     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.1XG     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.1XH     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.1XI     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.1XJ     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.1XL     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.1XM     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.1XP     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.1XQ     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.1XR     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.1XS     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.1XT     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.1XU     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.1XV     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.1XW     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.1XX     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.1XY     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.1XZ     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.1YA     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.1YB     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.1YC     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.1YD     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            | Releases prior to 12.1(5)YE6 are    | 12.4(18e)      |
|            | vulnerable, release 12.1(5)YE6 and  |                |
| 12.1YE     | later are not vulnerable; first     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            | fixed in 12.4                       | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.1YF     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.1YH     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.1YI     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.1(22)EA13   |
| 12.1YJ     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.1EA   |                |
|            |                                     | 12.2(44)SE6    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| Affected   |                                     | Recommended    |
| 12.2-Based | First Fixed Release                 | Release        |
| Releases   |                                     |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2       | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2B      | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            | Vulnerable; migrate to 12.2SCB1 or  | 12.2(33)SCB1   |
| 12.2BC     | 12.3BC                              |                |
|            |                                     | 12.3(23)BC6    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2BW     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2BX     | Vulnerable; migrate to 12.2SB4      | 12.2(33)SB4    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2BY     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2BZ     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            | Vulnerable; migrate to 12.2SCB or   | 12.2(33)SCB1   |
| 12.2CX     | 12.3BC                              |                |
|            |                                     | 12.3(23)BC6    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            | Vulnerable; migrate to 12.2SCB or   | 12.2(33)SCB1   |
| 12.2CY     | 12.3BC                              |                |
|            |                                     | 12.3(23)BC6    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2CZ     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2SB   | 12.2(33)SB4    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            | 12.2(12)DA14; Available on          |                |
| 12.2DA     | 30-JUL-2009                         | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2DD     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2DX     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2EW     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2SG   | 12.2(31)SGA9   |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2EWA    | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2SG   | 12.2(31)SGA9   |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2EX     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2SE   | 12.2(44)SE6    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2EY     | 12.2(44)EY                          | 12.2(44)SE6    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2EZ     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2SE   | 12.2(44)SE6    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2FX     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2SE   | 12.2(44)SE6    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2FY     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2SE   | 12.2(44)SE6    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2FZ     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2SE   | 12.2(44)SE6    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.2(33)SRC4;  |
| 12.2IRA    | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2SRC  | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 18-MAY-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.2(33)SRC4;  |
| 12.2IRB    | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2SRC  | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 18-MAY-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            | Vulnerable; migrate to any release  | 12.2(18)IXH;   |
| 12.2IXA    | in 12.2IXH                          | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 31-MAR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            | Vulnerable; migrate to any release  | 12.2(18)IXH;   |
| 12.2IXB    | in 12.2IXH                          | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 31-MAR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            | Vulnerable; migrate to any release  | 12.2(18)IXH;   |
| 12.2IXC    | in 12.2IXH                          | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 31-MAR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            | Vulnerable; migrate to any release  | 12.2(18)IXH;   |
| 12.2IXD    | in 12.2IXH                          | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 31-MAR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            | Vulnerable; migrate to any release  | 12.2(18)IXH;   |
| 12.2IXE    | in 12.2IXH                          | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 31-MAR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            | Vulnerable; migrate to any release  | 12.2(18)IXH;   |
| 12.2IXF    | in 12.2IXH                          | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 31-MAR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            | Vulnerable; migrate to any release  | 12.2(18)IXH;   |
| 12.2IXG    | in 12.2IXH                          | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 31-MAR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2JA     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2JK     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2MB     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2MC     | 12.2(15)MC2m                        | 12.2(15)MC2m   |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2S      | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2SB   | 12.2(33)SB4    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            | 12.2(31)SB14                        |                |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2SB     | 12.2(33)SB1                         | 12.2(33)SB4    |
|            |                                     |                |
|            | 12.2(28)SB13                        |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2SBC    | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2SB   | 12.2(33)SB4    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2SCA    | 12.2(33)SCA2                        | 12.2(33)SCB1   |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2SCB    | Not Vulnerable                      |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            | 12.2(50)SE                          |                |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2SE     | 12.2(46)SE2                         | 12.2(44)SE6    |
|            |                                     |                |
|            | 12.2(44)SE5                         |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2SEA    | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2SE   | 12.2(44)SE6    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2SEB    | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2SE   | 12.2(44)SE6    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2SEC    | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2SE   | 12.2(44)SE6    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2SED    | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2SE   | 12.2(44)SE6    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2SEE    | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2SE   | 12.2(44)SE6    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2SEF    | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2SE   | 12.2(44)SE6    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2SEG    | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2SE   | 12.2(44)SE6    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.2(52)SG;    |
| 12.2SG     | 12.2(50)SG                          | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 15-MAY-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2SGA    | 12.2(31)SGA9                        | 12.2(31)SGA9   |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2SL     | Not Vulnerable                      |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2SM     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2SO     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2SQ     | Not Vulnerable                      |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.2(33)SRC4;  |
| 12.2SRA    | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2SRC  | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 18-MAY-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.2(33)SRB5a; |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 3-April-2009   |
| 12.2SRB    | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2SRC  |                |
|            |                                     | 12.2(33)SRC4;  |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 18-MAY-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.2(33)SRC4;  |
| 12.2SRC    | 12.2(33)SRC1                        | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 18-MAY-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2SRD    | Not Vulnerable                      |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2STE    | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2SU     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2SV     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2SVA    | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2SVC    | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2SVD    | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2SVE    | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2SW     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2SX     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2SXF  | 12.2(18)SXF16  |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2SXA    | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2SXF  | 12.2(18)SXF16  |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2SXB    | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2SXF  | 12.2(18)SXF16  |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2SXD    | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2SXF  | 12.2(18)SXF16  |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2SXE    | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2SXF  | 12.2(18)SXF16  |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2SXF    | 12.2(18)SXF16                       | 12.2(18)SXF16  |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            | 12.2(33)SXH5; Available on          | 12.2(33)SXH5;  |
| 12.2SXH    | 20-APR-2009                         | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 20-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2SXI    | Not Vulnerable                      |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2SY     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2SB   | 12.2(33)SB4    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2SZ     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2SB   | 12.2(33)SB4    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2T      | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2TPC    | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2XA     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2XB     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2XC     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2XD     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2XE     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            | Vulnerable; migrate to 12.2SCB or   | 12.2(33)SCB1   |
| 12.2XF     | 12.3BC                              |                |
|            |                                     | 12.3(23)BC6    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2XG     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2XH     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2XI     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2XJ     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2XK     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2XL     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2XM     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.2(33)SB4    |
| 12.2XN     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2SRC  |                |
|            |                                     | 12.2(33)SRD1   |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2XNA    | Vulnerable; migrate to any release  | 12.2(33)SRD1   |
|            | in 12.2SRD                          |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2XNB    | Not Vulnerable                      |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2XNC    | Not Vulnerable                      |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2XO     | 12.2(46)XO                          | 12.2(46)XO     |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2XQ     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2XR     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2XS     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2XT     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2XU     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2XV     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2XW     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2YA     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2YB     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2YC     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2YD     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2YE     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2YF     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2YG     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2YH     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2YJ     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2YK     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2YL     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2YM     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2YN     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2YO     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2YP     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2YQ     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2YR     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2YS     | Not Vulnerable                      |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2YT     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2YU     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2YV     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2YW     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2YX     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2YY     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2YZ     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2ZA     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2SXF  | 12.2(18)SXF16  |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2ZB     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2ZC     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2ZD     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2ZE     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2ZF     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2ZG     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.2ZH     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2ZJ     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2ZL     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2ZP     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.2(33)SXH5;  |
| 12.2ZU     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2SXH  | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 20-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2ZX     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2SB   | 12.2(33)SB4    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2ZY     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.2ZYA    | 12.2(18)ZYA1                        | 12.2(18)ZYA1   |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| Affected   |                                     | Recommended    |
| 12.3-Based | First Fixed Release                 | Release        |
| Releases   |                                     |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.3       | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.3B      | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.3BC     | 12.3(23)BC6                         | 12.3(23)BC6    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.3BW     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.3EU     | Not Vulnerable                      |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.3JA     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.3JEA    | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.3JEB    | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.3JEC    | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.3JK     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.3JL     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4JK   |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.3JX     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.3T      | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.3TPC    | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.3VA     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.3XA     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.3XB     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.3XC     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.3XD     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.3XE     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.3XF     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.3XG     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.3XI     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.2SB   | 12.2(33)SB4    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.3XJ     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.3YX   | 12.3(14)YX14   |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.3XK     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.3XL     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.3XQ     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.3XR     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4     | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.3XS     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.3XU     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.3XW     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.3YX   | 12.3(14)YX14   |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.3XX     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.3XY     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.3XZ     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.3YA     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.3YD     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.3YF     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.3YX   | 12.3(14)YX14   |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.3YG     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.3YH     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.3YI     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.3YJ     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.3YK     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.3YM     | 12.3(14)YM13                        | 12.3(14)YM13   |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.3YQ     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.3YS     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.3YT     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.3YU     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4XB   | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.3YX     | 12.3(14)YX14                        | 12.3(14)YX14   |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.3YZ     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.3ZA     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| Affected   |                                     | Recommended    |
| 12.4-Based | First Fixed Release                 | Release        |
| Releases   |                                     |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            | 12.4(19)                            | 12.4(18e)      |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.4       | 12.4(18a)                           | 12.4(23a);     |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            | 12.4(23a); Available on 30-APR-2009 | 30-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.4JA     | 12.4(16b)JA1                        |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.4JDA    | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.4JK     | 12.4(3)JK4                          |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.4JL     | 12.4(3)JL1                          |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.4JMA    | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.4JMB    | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.4JX     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4JA   |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.4MD     | 12.4(11)MD7                         | 12.4(11)MD7    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.4MR     | 12.4(19)MR                          | 12.4(19)MR2    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.4SW     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            | 12.4(20)T                           | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.4T      | 12.4(15)T8                          | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            | 12.4(15)T9; Available on            | 29-APR-2009    |
|            | 29-APR-2009                         |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.4XA     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            | 12.4(15)T8                          |                |
| 12.4XB     |                                     | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            | 12.4(20)T                           | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.4XC     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            | 12.4(4)XD12; Available on           | 12.4(4)XD12;   |
| 12.4XD     | 27-MAR-2009                         | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 27-MAR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.4XE     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.4XF     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.4XG     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.4XJ     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.4XK     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.4XL     | 12.4(15)XL4                         | 12.4(15)XL4    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.4XM     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.4XN     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.4XP     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.4XQ     | 12.4(15)XQ2                         | 12.4(15)XQ2    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.4XR     | 12.4(15)XR4                         | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.4XT     | Vulnerable; first fixed in 12.4T    | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.4XV     | Vulnerable; contact TAC             |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.4XW     | 12.4(11)XW10                        | 12.4(11)XW10   |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
|            |                                     | 12.4(22)T1     |
|            |                                     |                |
| 12.4XY     | 12.4(15)XY4                         | 12.4(15)T9;    |
|            |                                     | Available on   |
|            |                                     | 29-APR-2009    |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.4XZ     | Not Vulnerable                      |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.4YA     | Not Vulnerable                      |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.4YB     | Not Vulnerable                      |                |
|------------+-------------------------------------+----------------|
| 12.4YD     | Not Vulnerable                      |                |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+

Workarounds
===========

The following mitigations have been identified for this
vulnerability:

Infrastructure Access Control Lists
+----------------------------------

Although it is often difficult to block traffic that transits a
network, it is possible to identify traffic that should never be
allowed to target infrastructure devices and block that traffic at
the border of networks. Infrastructure Access Control Lists (iACLs)
are a network security best practice and should be considered as a
long-term addition to good network security as well as a workaround
for these specific vulnerabilities. The iACL example below should be
included as part of the deployed infrastructure access-list which
will protect all devices with IP addresses in the infrastructure IP
address range:


    !--- Only sections pertaining to features enabled on the device
    !--- need be configured.
    !---
    !--- Feature: Cisco Unified Communications Manager Express 
    !---
    !--- CAPF server configuration
    !---

    access-list 150 permit tcp TRUSTED_SOURCE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD
         INFRASTRUCTURE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD eq 3804

    !---
    !--- Telephony-Service configuration
    !--- The TCP port is as per the ip source-address
    !--- <ip-address> port <port-number> telephony
    !--- service configuration command.  Example below 2999
    !--- 

    access-list 150 permit tcp TRUSTED_SOURCE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD
         INFRASTRUCTURE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD eq 2999

    !---
    !--- Deny Cisco Unified Communications Manager Express traffic 
    !--- from all other sources destined to infrastructure addresses.
    !---

    access-list 150 deny tcp any
         INFRASTRUCTURE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD eq 3804
    access-list 150 deny tcp any
         INFRASTRUCTURE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD eq 2999

    !---
    !--- Feature: SIP Gateway Signaling Support Over TLS Transport
    !---

    access-list 150 permit tcp TRUSTED_SOURCE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD
         INFRASTRUCTURE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD eq 5061

    !--- Deny SIP Gateway Signaling Support Over TLS Transport 
    !--- traffic from all other sources destined to infrastructure 
    !--- addresses.

    access-list 150 deny tcp any
         INFRASTRUCTURE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD eq 5061

    !---
    !--- Feature: Secure Signaling and Media Encryption
    !---

    access-list 150 permit tcp TRUSTED_SOURCE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD
         INFRASTRUCTURE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD eq 2443

    !--- Deny Secure Signaling and Media Encryption traffic from all 
    !--- other sources destined to infrastructure addresses.

    access-list 150 deny tcp any
         INFRASTRUCTURE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD eq 2443

    !---
    !--- Feature: Blocks Extensible Exchange Protocol (BEEP)
    !--- The TCP port used is defined with the netconf beep initiator 
    !--- and netconf beep listener configuration
    !--- commands.  This example uses 3001
    !---

    access-list 150 permit tcp TRUSTED_SOURCE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD
         INFRASTRUCTURE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD eq 3001

    !--- Deny BEEP traffic from all other sources destined to 
    !--- infrastructure addresses.

    access-list 150 deny tcp any
         INFRASTRUCTURE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD eq 3001

    !---
    !--- Feature: Network Admission Control HTTP Authentication Proxy
    !--- and
    !--- Per-user URL Redirect for EAP over UDP, Dot1x and MAC 
    !--- Authentication Bybass
    !---

    access-list 150 permit tcp TRUSTED_SOURCE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD
         INFRASTRUCTURE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD eq 80
    access-list 150 permit tcp TRUSTED_SOURCE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD
         INFRASTRUCTURE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD eq 443

    !---
    !--- Deny Network Admission Control HTTP Authentication Proxy
    !--- and
    !--- Per-user URL Redirect for EAP over UDP, Dot1x and MAC 
    !--- Authentication Bybass traffic to infrastructue
    !---

    access-list 150 deny tcp any
         INFRASTRUCTURE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD eq 80
    access-list 150 deny tcp any
         INFRASTRUCTURE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD eq 443

    !---
    !--- Features: Distributed Director with HTTP Redirects and DNS
    !---

    access-list 150 permit tcp TRUSTED_SOURCE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD
         INFRASTRUCTURE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD eq 53

    !--- Deny Distributed Director with HTTP Redirects traffic and DNS 
    !--- from all other sources destined to infrastructure addresses.

    access-list 150 deny tcp any
         INFRASTRUCTURE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD eq 53

    !--- Permit/deny all other Layer 3 and Layer 4 traffic in 
    !--- accordance with existing security policies and configurations
    !--- Permit all other traffic to transit the device.

    access-list 150 permit ip any any

    !--- Apply access-list to all interfaces (only one example shown)

    interface serial 2/0
    ip access-group 150 in

The white paper entitled "Protecting Your Core: Infrastructure
Protection Access Control Lists" presents guidelines and recommended
deployment techniques for infrastructure protection access lists.
This white paper can be obtained at the following link 
http://www.cisco.com/en/US/tech/tk648/tk361/technologies_white_paper09186a00801a1a55.shtml

Receive ACLs (rACL)
+------------------

For distributed platforms, Receive ACLs may be an option starting in
Cisco IOS Software Versions 12.0(21)S2 for the 12000 (GSR), 12.0(24)S
for the 7500, and 12.0(31)S for the 10720. The Receive ACL protects
the device from harmful traffic before the traffic can impact the
route processor. Receive ACLs are designed to only protect the device
on which it is configured. On the 12000, 7500, and 10720, transit
traffic is never affected by a receive ACL. Because of this, the
destination IP address "any" used in the example ACL entries below
only refer to the router's own physical or virtual IP addresses.
Receive ACLs are considered a network security best practice, and
should be considered as a long-term addition to good network
security, as well as a workaround for this specific vulnerability.
The white paper entitled "GSR: Receive Access Control Lists" will
help you identify and allow legitimate traffic to your device and
deny all unwanted packets. This white paper is available at the
following link 
http://www.cisco.com/en/US/tech/tk648/tk361/technologies_white_paper09186a00801a0a5e.shtml

The following is the receive path ACL written to permit this type of
traffic from trusted hosts:


    !---
    !--- Only sections pertaining to features enabled on the device
    !--- need be configured.
    !---

    !---
    !--- Feature: Cisco Unified Communications Manager Express 
    !---
    !---

    !---
    !--- Permit CAPF server traffic from trusted hosts allowed to 
    !--- the RP.
    !---

    access-list 150 permit tcp TRUSTED_SOURCE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD
         any eq 3804

    !---
    !--- Telephony-Service configuration
    !---

    !---
    !--- The TCP port is as per the ip source-address
    !--- <address> port <port-number> telephony-service 
    !--- configuration command.  Example below 2999
    !---
    !--- Permit Telephony-Service traffic from trusted hosts allowed 
    !--- to the RP.

    access-list 150 permit tcp TRUSTED_SOURCE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD
         any eq 2999

    !---
    !--- Deny Cisco Unified Communications Manager Express 
    !--- traffic from all other sources to the RP.
    !---

    access-list 150 deny tcp any any eq 3804
    access-list 150 deny tcp any any eq 2999

    !---
    !--- Permit SIP Gateway Signaling Support Over TLS Transport
    !--- traffic from trusted hosts allowed to the RP.
    !---

    access-list 150 permit tcp TRUSTED_SOURCE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD
         any eq 5061

    !---
    !--- Deny SIP Gateway Signaling Support Over TLS Transport 
    !--- traffic from all other sources to the RP.
    !---

    access-list 150 deny tcp any any eq 5061

    !---
    !--- Permit Secure Signaling and Media Encryption traffic 
    !--- from trusted hosts allowed to the RP.
    !---

    access-list 150 permit tcp TRUSTED_SOURCE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD
         any eq 2443

    !---
    !--- Deny Secure Signaling and Media Encryption traffic from 
    !--- all other sources to the RP.
    !---

    access-list 150 deny tcp any any eq 2443

    !---
    !--- Feature: Blocks Extensible Exchange Protocol (BEEP)
    !--- The TCP port used is defined with the netconf beep initiator 
    !--- and netconf beep listener configuration commands.  
    !--- This example uses 3001
    !---

    !---
    !--- Permit BEEP traffic from trusted hosts allowed to the RP.
    !---

    access-list 150 permit tcp TRUSTED_SOURCE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD
         any eq 3001

    !---
    !--- Deny BEEP traffic from all other sources to the RP.
    !---

    access-list 150 deny tcp any any eq 3001

    !---
    !--- Feature: Network Admission Control HTTP Authentication Proxy
    !--- and
    !--- Per-user URL Redirect for EAP over UDP, Dot1x and MAC 
    !--- Authentication Bybass
    !---

    !---
    !--- Permit Per-user URL Redirect for EAP over UDP, Dot1x and MAC 
    !--- Authentication Bybass traffic from trusted hosts allowed to 
    !--- the RP.
    !---

    access-list 150 permit tcp TRUSTED_SOURCE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD
         any eq 80
    access-list 150 permit tcp TRUSTED_SOURCE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD
         any eq 443

    !---
    !--- Deny Network Admission Control HTTP Authentication Proxy
    !--- and
    !--- Per-user URL Redirect for EAP over UDP, Dot1x and MAC 
    !--- Authentication Bybass traffic from all other sources to 
    !--- the RP.
    !---

    access-list 150 deny tcp any any eq 80
    access-list 150 deny tcp any any eq 443

    !---
    !--- Features: Distributed Director with HTTP Redirects and DNS
    !---

    !---
    !--- Permit Distribute Director and DNS traffic from trusted hosts
    !--- allowed to the RP.
    !---

    access-list 150 permit tcp TRUSTED_SOURCE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD
         any eq 53

    !---
    !--- Deny distributed director and DNS traffic from all other 
    !--- sources to the RP.
    !---

    access-list 150 deny tcp any any eq 53

    !---
    !--- Permit all other traffic to the RP.
    !--- according to security policy and configurations.
    !---

    access-list 150 permit ip any any

    !---
    !--- Apply this access list to the 'receive' path.
    !---

    ip receive access-list 150

Control Plane Policing
+---------------------

Control Plane Policing (CoPP) can be used to block the affected
features TCP traffic access to the device. Cisco IOS software
releases 12.0S, 12.2SX, 12.2S, 12.3T, 12.4, and 12.4T support the
CoPP feature. CoPP can be configured on a device to protect the
management and control planes and minimize the risk and effectiveness
of direct infrastructure attacks by explicitly permitting only
authorized traffic that is sent to infrastructure devices in
accordance with existing security policies and configurations. The
CoPP example below should be included as part of the deployed CoPP
which will protect all devices with IP addresses in the
infrastructure IP address range.


    !---
    !--- Only sections pertaining to features enabled on the device
    !--- need be configured.
    !---
    !--- Feature: Cisco Unified Communications Manager Express
    !---
    !--- CAPF Server configuration
    !---

    access-list 150 deny tcp TRUSTED_SOURCE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD
       any eq 3804

    !---
    !--- Telephony-Service configuration
    !--- The TCP port is as per the ip source-address
    !--- <address> port <port-number> telephony-service
    !--- configuration command.  Example below 2999
    !---

    access-list 150 deny tcp TRUSTED_SOURCE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD
       any eq 2999

    !---
    !--- Permit Cisco Unified Communications Manager Express traffic 
    !--- sent to all IP addresses configured on all interfaces of 
    !--- the affected device so that it will be policed and dropped
    !--- by the CoPP feature
    !---
    !--- CAPF server configuration
    !---

    access-list 150 permit tcp any any eq 3804

    !---
    !--- Telephony-Service configuration
    !---

    access-list 150 permit tcp any any eq 2999

    !---
    !--- Feature: SIP Gateway Signaling Support Over TLS Transport
    !---

    access-list 150 deny tcp TRUSTED_SOURCE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD
       any eq 5061

    !---
    !--- Permit SIP Gateway Signaling Support Over TLS Transport 
    !--- traffic sent to all IP addresses configured on all interfaces
    !--- of the affected device so that it will be policed and  
    !--- dropped by the CoPP feature
    !--- 

    access-list 150 permit tcp any any eq 5061

    !---
    !--- Feature: Secure Signaling and Media Encryption
    !---

    access-list 150 deny tcp TRUSTED_SOURCE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD
       any eq 2443

    !---
    !--- Permit Secure Signaling and Media Encryption traffic sent to
    !--- all IP addresses configured on all interfaces of the affected 
    !--- device so that it will be policed and dropped by the CoPP 
    !--- feature
    !---

    access-list 150 permit tcp any any eq 2443

    !---
    !--- Feature: Blocks Extensible Exchange Protocol (BEEP)
    !--- The TCP port used is defined with the netconf beep initiator 
    !--- and netconf beep listener configuration commands.  
    !--- This example uses 3001
    !---

    access-list 150 deny tcp TRUSTED_SOURCE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD
       any eq 3001

    !---
    !--- Permit BEEP traffic sent to all IP addresses configured
    !--- on all interfaces of the affected device so that it
    !--- will be policed and dropped by the CoPP feature
    !---

    access-list 150 permit tcp any any eq 3001

    !---
    !--- Feature: Network Admission Control HTTP Authentication Proxy
    !--- and
    !--- Per-user URL Redirect for EAP over UDP, Dot1x and MAC 
    !--- Authentication Bybass
    !---

    access-list 150 deny tcp TRUSTED_SOURCE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD
       any eq 80
    access-list 150 deny tcp TRUSTED_SOURCE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD
       any eq 443

    !---
    !--- Permit Network Admission Control HTTP Authentication Proxy
    !--- and Per-user URL Redirect for EAP over UDP, Dot1x and MAC 
    !--- Authentication Bybass traffic sent to all IP addresses
    !--- configured on all interfaces of the affected device so that it
    !--- will be policed and dropped by the CoPP feature
    !---

    access-list 150 permit tcp any any eq 80
    access-list 150 permit tcp any any eq 443

    !---
    !--- Features: Distributed Director with HTTP Redirects and DNS
    !---

    access-list 150 deny tcp TRUSTED_SOURCE_ADDRESSES WILDCARD
       any eq 53

    !---
    !--- Permit Distributed Director with HTTP Redirects and DNS 
    !--- traffic sent to all IP addresses configured on all interfaces
    !--- of the affected device so that it will be policed and dropped
    !--- by the CoPP feature
    !---

    access-list 150 permit tcp any any eq 53

    !---
    !--- Permit (Police or Drop)/Deny (Allow) all other Layer3 and
    !--- Layer4 traffic in accordance with existing security policies
    !--- and configurations for traffic that is authorized to be sent
    !--- to infrastructure devices
    !---

    !---
    !--- Create a Class-Map for traffic to be policed by
    !--- the CoPP feature
    !---

    class-map match-all drop-tcpip-class
    match access-group 150

    !---
    !--- Create a Policy-Map that will be applied to the
    !--- Control-Plane of the device.
    !---

    policy-map drop-tcpip-traffic

    class drop-tcpip-class
    drop

    !---
    !--- Apply the Policy-Map to the 
    !--- Control-Plane of the device
    !---

    control-plane
    service-policy input drop-tcpip-traffic

In the above CoPP example, the access control list entries (ACEs)
that match the potential exploit packets with the "permit" action
result in these packets being discarded by the policy-map "drop"
function, while packets that match the "deny" action (not shown) are
not affected by the policy-map drop function. Please note that the
policy-map syntax is different in the 12.2S and 12.0S Cisco IOS
trains:

    policy-map drop-tcpip-traffic
      class drop-tcpip-class
        police 32000 1500 1500 conform-action drop exceed-action drop

Additional information on the configuration and use of the CoPP
feature can be found in the documents, "Control Plane Policing
Implementation Best Practices" and "Cisco IOS Software Releases 12.2
S - Control Plane Policing" at the following links 
http://www.cisco.com/web/about/security/intelligence/coppwp_gs.html and
http://www.cisco.com/en/US/docs/ios/12_3t/12_3t4/feature/guide/gtrtlimt.html

Additional mitigations that can be deployed on Cisco devices within
the network are available in the "Cisco Applied Mitigation Bulletin"
companion document for this advisory at the following link 
http://www.cisco.com/warp/public/707/cisco-amb-20090325-tcp-and-ip.shtml

Obtaining Fixed Software
========================

Cisco has released free software updates that address these
vulnerabilities. Prior to deploying software, customers should
consult their maintenance provider or check the software for feature
set compatibility and known issues specific to their environment.

Customers may only install and expect support for the feature sets
they have purchased. By installing, downloading, accessing or
otherwise using such software upgrades, customers agree to be bound
by the terms of Cisco's software license terms found at 
http://www.cisco.com/en/US/docs/general/warranty/English/EU1KEN_.html,
or as otherwise set forth at Cisco.com Downloads at 
http://www.cisco.com/public/sw-center/sw-usingswc.shtml

Do not contact psirt@...co.com or security-alert@...co.com for
software upgrades.

Customers with Service Contracts
+-------------------------------

Customers with contracts should obtain upgraded software through
their regular update channels. For most customers, this means that
upgrades should be obtained through the Software Center on Cisco's
worldwide website at http://www.cisco.com

Customers using Third Party Support Organizations
+------------------------------------------------

Customers whose Cisco products are provided or maintained through
prior or existing agreements with third-party support organizations,
such as Cisco Partners, authorized resellers, or service providers
should contact that support organization for guidance and assistance
with the appropriate course of action in regards to this advisory.

The effectiveness of any workaround or fix is dependent on specific
customer situations, such as product mix, network topology, traffic
behavior, and organizational mission. Due to the variety of affected
products and releases, customers should consult with their service
provider or support organization to ensure any applied workaround or
fix is the most appropriate for use in the intended network before it
is deployed.

Customers without Service Contracts
+----------------------------------

Customers who purchase direct from Cisco but do not hold a Cisco
service contract, and customers who purchase through third-party
vendors but are unsuccessful in obtaining fixed software through
their point of sale should acquire upgrades by contacting the Cisco
Technical Assistance Center (TAC). TAC contacts are as follows.

  * +1 800 553 2447 (toll free from within North America)
  * +1 408 526 7209 (toll call from anywhere in the world)
  * e-mail: tac@...co.com

Customers should have their product serial number available and be
prepared to give the URL of this notice as evidence of entitlement to
a free upgrade. Free upgrades for non-contract customers must be
requested through the TAC.

Refer to http://www.cisco.com/en/US/support/tsd_cisco_worldwide_contacts.html
for additional TAC contact information, including localized telephone 
numbers, and instructions and e-mail addresses for use in various 
languages.

Exploitation and Public Announcements
=====================================

The Cisco PSIRT is not aware of any public announcements or malicious
use of the vulnerability described in this advisory.

This vulnerability was discovered by Cisco when performing internal
vulnerability testing. We would also like to thank Jens Link,
freelance consultant, for also reporting this vulnerability to us.

Status of this Notice: FINAL
============================

THIS DOCUMENT IS PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" BASIS AND DOES NOT IMPLY ANY
KIND OF GUARANTEE OR WARRANTY, INCLUDING THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR USE. YOUR USE OF THE
INFORMATION ON THE DOCUMENT OR MATERIALS LINKED FROM THE DOCUMENT IS
AT YOUR OWN RISK. CISCO RESERVES THE RIGHT TO CHANGE OR UPDATE THIS
DOCUMENT AT ANY TIME.

A stand-alone copy or Paraphrase of the text of this document that
omits the distribution URL in the following section is an
uncontrolled copy, and may lack important information or contain
factual errors.

Distribution
============

This advisory is posted on Cisco's worldwide website at :

http://www.cisco.com/warp/public/707/cisco-sa-20090325-tcpip.shtml

In addition to worldwide web posting, a text version of this notice
is clear-signed with the Cisco PSIRT PGP key and is posted to the
following e-mail and Usenet news recipients.

  * cust-security-announce@...co.com
  * first-bulletins@...ts.first.org
  * bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
  * vulnwatch@...nwatch.org
  * cisco@...t.colorado.edu
  * cisco-nsp@...k.nether.net
  * full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk
  * comp.dcom.sys.cisco@...sgate.cisco.com

Future updates of this advisory, if any, will be placed on Cisco's
worldwide website, but may or may not be actively announced on
mailing lists or newsgroups. Users concerned about this problem are
encouraged to check the above URL for any updates.

Revision History
================

+---------------------------------------+
| Revision |               | Initial    |
| 1.0      | 2009-March-25 | public     |
|          |               | release.   |
+---------------------------------------+

Cisco Security Procedures
=========================

Complete information on reporting security vulnerabilities in Cisco
products, obtaining assistance with security incidents, and
registering to receive security information from Cisco, is available
on Cisco's worldwide website at 
http://www.cisco.com/en/US/products/products_security_vulnerability_policy.html
This includes instructions for press inquiries regarding Cisco 
security notices. All Cisco security advisories are available at 
http://www.cisco.com/go/psirt
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: GnuPG v1.4.8 (Darwin)

iEYEARECAAYFAknKUasACgkQ86n/Gc8U/uBbjACeIwNWs1Rt18l5RAnnaMCvg4GA
kK0AnjoeX6PBI/y6tro0tjJUCfrAAr30
=Ijff
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

_______________________________________________
Full-Disclosure - We believe in it.
Charter: http://lists.grok.org.uk/full-disclosure-charter.html
Hosted and sponsored by Secunia - http://secunia.com/
