
Date: Wed, 24 Aug 2011 11:56:59 -0400
From: Cisco Systems Product Security Incident Response Team <psirt@...co.com>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Cc: psirt@...co.com
Subject: Cisco Security Advisory: Open Query Interface in Cisco Unified Communications Manager and Cisco Unified Presence Server

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA256


Cisco Security Advisory: Open Query Interface in Cisco Unified
Communications Manager and Cisco Unified Presence Server

Advisory ID: cisco-sa-20110824-cucm-cups

Revision 1.0

For Public Release 2011 August 24 1600 UTC (GMT)

+---------------------------------------------------------------------

Summary
=======

Cisco Unified Communications Manager (previously known as Cisco
CallManager) and Cisco Unified Presence Server contain an open query
interface that could allow an unauthenticated, remote attacker to
disclose the contents of the underlying databases on affected product
versions.

Cisco has released free updated software for most supported releases.
A security patch file is also available for all supported versions
that will remediate this issue. The patch may be applied to active
systems without requiring a reload. Customers are advised to apply a
fixed version or upgrade to a fixed train. Customers who need to stay
on a version for which updated software is not currently available or
who can not immediately apply the update are advised to apply the
patch.

No workarounds are available for this issue.

This advisory is posted at:
http://www.cisco.com/warp/public/707/cisco-sa-20110824-cucm-cups.shtml

Affected Products
=================

Vulnerable Products
+------------------

The following products are affected by the vulnerability described in
this advisory:

Cisco Unified Communications Manager

  * Cisco Unified Communications Manager 6.x
  * Cisco Unified Communications Manager 7.x
  * Cisco Unified Communications Manager 8.0
  * Cisco Unified Communications Manager 8.5

Note: Cisco Unified Communications Manager version 5.1 reached end of
software maintenance on February 13, 2010. Customers who are using
Cisco Unified Communications Manager 5.x versions should contact
their Cisco support team for assistance in upgrading to a supported
version of Cisco Unified Communications Manager.

Cisco Unified Presence Server

  * Cisco Unified Presence Server 6.x
  * Cisco Unified Presence Server 7.x
  * Cisco Unified Presence Server 8.0
  * Cisco Unified Presence Server 8.5

Products Confirmed Not Vulnerable
+--------------------------------

The following products are not affected by this vulnerability:

  * Cisco Unified Communications Manager 4.x
  * Cisco Unified Communications Manager 8.6(1x)
  * Cisco Unified Presence Server 8.6(1x)
  * Cisco Unity Connection
  * Cisco Emergency Responder
  * Cisco Unified Communications Manager Business Edition 3000
  * Cisco Unified Communications Manager Business Edition 5000
  * Cisco Unified Communications Manager Business Edition 6000

No other Cisco products are known to be affected by this
vulnerability.

Details
=======

Cisco Unified Communications Manager is the call processing component
of the Cisco IP Telephony solution that extends enterprise telephony
features and functions to packet telephony network devices such as IP
phones, media processing devices, VoIP gateways, and multimedia
applications.

Cisco Unified Presence Server is a standards-based enterprise
platform that brings people together in and across organizations.
This open and extensible platform facilitates the secure exchange of
availability and instant messaging (IM) information between Cisco
Unified Communications Manager and other applications.

Open Query Interface
+-------------------

Cisco Unified Communications Manager and Cisco Unified Presence
Server contain an open query interface that could allow an
unauthenticated, remote attacker to disclose some or all of the data
contained in the underlying databases. This data may include
authentication credentials, configuration details, and other
sensitive information.

To exploit this issue, an attacker must have the ability to open an
SSL connection to an affected device via TCP ports 443 or 8443. A
completed three-way TCP handshake is required to exploit this
vulnerability.

This vulnerability has been assigned CVE identifier CVE-2011-1643.
The vulnerability is documented in the following Cisco BugIDs:

  * Cisco Unified Communications Manager - CSCti81574

  * Cisco Unified Communications Manager - CSCto63060

  * Cisco Unified Communications Manager - CSCto72183

  * Cisco Unified Presence Server - CSCto73833

Vulnerability Scoring Details
=============================

Cisco has provided scores for the vulnerabilities in this advisory
based on the Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS). The CVSS
scoring in this Security Advisory is done in accordance with CVSS
version 2.0.

CVSS is a standards-based scoring method that conveys vulnerability
severity and helps determine urgency and priority of response.

Cisco has provided a base and temporal score. Customers can then
compute environmental scores to assist in determining the impact of
the vulnerability in individual networks.

Cisco has provided an FAQ to answer additional questions regarding
CVSS at:
http://www.cisco.com/web/about/security/intelligence/cvss-qandas.html

Cisco has also provided a CVSS calculator to help compute the
environmental impact for individual networks at:
http://intellishield.cisco.com/security/alertmanager/cvss.

* CSCti81574 - Open Query Interface

CVSS Base Score - 10.0
    Access Vector -            Network
    Access Complexity -        Low
    Authentication -           None
    Confidentiality Impact -   Complete
    Integrity Impact -         Complete
    Availability Impact -      Complete

CVSS Temporal Score - 8.3
    Exploitability -           Functional
    Remediation Level -        Official-Fix
    Report Confidence -        Confirmed


* CSCto63060 - Open Query Interface

CVSS Base Score - 10.0
    Access Vector -            Network
    Access Complexity -        Low
    Authentication -           None
    Confidentiality Impact -   Complete
    Integrity Impact -         Complete
    Availability Impact -      Complete

CVSS Temporal Score - 8.3
    Exploitability -           Functional
    Remediation Level -        Official-Fix
    Report Confidence -        Confirmed


* CSCto72183 - Open Query Interface

CVSS Base Score - 10.0
    Access Vector -            Network
    Access Complexity -        Low
    Authentication -           None
    Confidentiality Impact -   Complete
    Integrity Impact -         Complete
    Availability Impact -      Complete

CVSS Temporal Score - 8.3
    Exploitability -           Functional
    Remediation Level -        Official-Fix
    Report Confidence -        Confirmed


* CSCto73833 - Open Query Interface

CVSS Base Score - 10.0
    Access Vector -            Network
    Access Complexity -        Low
    Authentication -           None
    Confidentiality Impact -   Complete
    Integrity Impact -         Complete
    Availability Impact -      Complete

CVSS Temporal Score - 8.3
    Exploitability -           Functional
    Remediation Level -        Official-Fix
    Report Confidence -        Confirmed

Impact
======

Successful exploitation of the vulnerability may result in the full
disclosure of the contents of the affected products underlying
database. Contents may include authentication credentials,
configuration details, and other sensitive information.

Because the vulnerability is restricted to read-only access, it can
not be directly exploited to manipulate data held in the database.
However, with the appropriate knowledge an attacker could leverage
the obtained information to gain administrative access to the Web
based management interface.

Software Versions and Fixes
===========================

When considering software upgrades, also consult http://www.cisco.com/go/psirt
and any subsequent advisories to determine exposure and a complete
upgrade solution.

In all cases, customers should exercise caution to be certain the
devices to be upgraded contain sufficient memory and that current
hardware and software configurations will continue to be supported
properly by the new release. If the information is not clear, contact
the Cisco Technical Assistance Center (TAC) or your contracted
maintenance provider for assistance.

+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Cisco Unified Communications Manager        | First Fixed Release |
| Version                                     |                     |
|---------------------------------------------+---------------------|
| 6.x                                         | Apply COP File      |
|---------------------------------------------+---------------------|
|                                             | 7.1(5b)su4 or       |
| 7.x                                         |                     |
|                                             | Apply COP File      |
|---------------------------------------------+---------------------|
| 8.0                                         | Apply COP File      |
|---------------------------------------------+---------------------|
|                                             | 8.5(1)su2 or        |
| 8.5                                         |                     |
|                                             | Apply COP File      |
|---------------------------------------------+---------------------|
| 8.6                                         | Not Affected        |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+

Note: The Cisco Unified Communications Manager Security COP file is
available for download from the Cisco Software Center.

+-------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Cisco Unified Presence | First Fixed Release                      |
| Server                 |                                          |
|------------------------+------------------------------------------|
| 6.x                    | Migrate to 8.5xnr or later or 8.6(x)     |
|------------------------+------------------------------------------|
| 7.x                    | Apply COP File or Migrate to 8.5xnr or   |
|                        | later or 8.6(x)                          |
|------------------------+------------------------------------------|
| 8.0                    | Apply COP File or Migrate to 8.5xnr or   |
|                        | later or 8.6(x)                          |
|------------------------+------------------------------------------|
| 8.5                    | 8.5xnr                                   |
|------------------------+------------------------------------------|
| 8.6                    | Not Affected                             |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+

Note: A Cisco Unified Presence Server patch in the form of a Security
COP file is available via TAC for versions that do not currently have
a published fixed version.

Workarounds
===========

There are no known workarounds for this issue.

Additional mitigations that can be deployed on Cisco devices within
the network are available in the Cisco Applied Intelligence companion
document for this advisory:
http://www.cisco.com/warp/public/707/cisco-amb-20110824-cucm-cups.shtml

Obtaining Fixed Software
========================

Cisco has released free software updates that address these
vulnerabilities. Prior to deploying software, customers should
consult their maintenance provider or check the software for feature
set compatibility and known issues specific to their environment.

Customers may only install and expect support for the feature sets
they have purchased. By installing, downloading, accessing or
otherwise using such software upgrades, customers agree to be bound
by the terms of Cisco's software license terms found at:
http://www.cisco.com/en/US/docs/general/warranty/English/EU1KEN_.html

Or as otherwise set forth at Cisco.com Downloads at:
http://www.cisco.com/public/sw-center/sw-usingswc.shtml

Do not contact psirt@...co.com or security-alert@...co.com for
software upgrades.

Customers with Service Contracts
+-------------------------------

Customers with contracts should obtain upgraded software through
their regular update channels. For most customers, this means that
upgrades should be obtained through the Software Center on Cisco's
worldwide website at http://www.cisco.com.

Customers using Third Party Support Organizations
+------------------------------------------------

Customers whose Cisco products are provided or maintained through
prior or existing agreements with third-party support organizations,
such as Cisco Partners, authorized resellers, or service providers
should contact that support organization for guidance and assistance
with the appropriate course of action in regards to this advisory.

The effectiveness of any workaround or fix is dependent on specific
customer situations, such as product mix, network topology, traffic
behavior, and organizational mission. Due to the variety of affected
products and releases, customers should consult with their service
provider or support organization to ensure any applied workaround or
fix is the most appropriate for use in the intended network before it
is deployed.

Customers without Service Contracts
+----------------------------------

Customers who purchase direct from Cisco but do not hold a Cisco
service contract, and customers who purchase through third-party
vendors but are unsuccessful in obtaining fixed software through
their point of sale should acquire upgrades by contacting the Cisco
Technical Assistance Center (TAC). TAC contacts are as follows.

  * +1 800 553 2447 (toll free from within North America)
  * +1 408 526 7209 (toll call from anywhere in the world)
  * e-mail: tac@...co.com

Customers should have their product serial number available and be
prepared to give the URL of this notice as evidence of entitlement to
a free upgrade. Free upgrades for non-contract customers must be
requested through the TAC.

Refer to: 
http://www.cisco.com/en/US/support/tsd_cisco_worldwide_contacts.html

For additional TAC contact information, including localized telephone
numbers, and instructions and e-mail addresses for use in various
languages.

Exploitation and Public Announcements
=====================================

The Cisco PSIRT is not aware of any public exploitation of the
vulnerability described in this advisory.

This vulnerability was reported to Cisco by kxlzx.

Status of this Notice: FINAL
============================

THIS DOCUMENT IS PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" BASIS AND DOES NOT IMPLY ANY
KIND OF GUARANTEE OR WARRANTY, INCLUDING THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR USE. YOUR USE OF THE
INFORMATION ON THE DOCUMENT OR MATERIALS LINKED FROM THE DOCUMENT IS
AT YOUR OWN RISK. CISCO RESERVES THE RIGHT TO CHANGE OR UPDATE THIS
DOCUMENT AT ANY TIME.

A stand-alone copy or Paraphrase of the text of this document that
omits the distribution URL in the following section is an
uncontrolled copy, and may lack important information or contain
factual errors.

Distribution
============

This advisory is posted on Cisco's worldwide website at :

http://www.cisco.com/warp/public/707/cisco-sa-20110824-cucm-cups.shtml

In addition to worldwide web posting, a text version of this notice
is clear-signed with the Cisco PSIRT PGP key and is posted to the
following e-mail and Usenet news recipients.

  * cust-security-announce@...co.com
  * first-bulletins@...ts.first.org
  * bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
  * vulnwatch@...nwatch.org
  * cisco@...t.colorado.edu
  * cisco-nsp@...k.nether.net
  * full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk
  * comp.dcom.sys.cisco@...sgate.cisco.com

Future updates of this advisory, if any, will be placed on Cisco's
worldwide website, but may or may not be actively announced on
mailing lists or newsgroups. Users concerned about this problem are
encouraged to check the above URL for any updates.

Revision History
================

+---------------------------------------+
| Revision |                | Initial   |
| 1.0      | 2011-August-24 | public    |
|          |                | release.  |
+---------------------------------------+

Cisco Security Procedures
=========================

Complete information on reporting security vulnerabilities in Cisco
products, obtaining assistance with security incidents, and
registering to receive security information from Cisco, is available
on Cisco's worldwide website at:
http://www.cisco.com/en/US/products/products_security_vulnerability_policy.html

This includes instructions for press inquiries regarding Cisco
security notices. All Cisco security advisories are available at:
http://www.cisco.com/go/psirt

+--------------------------------------------------------------------
Copyright 2010-2011 Cisco Systems, Inc. All rights reserved.
+--------------------------------------------------------------------
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: GnuPG v1.4.9 (Darwin)

iF4EAREIAAYFAk5U/okACgkQQXnnBKKRMNDuPgD/TBkaFRIEZLjiXwEjUF2/Jo0k
MMWkPEU7APP/lKzJNhEBAIO7m5yVO+wgr6xpRNo+weq6VKOEPE+GS+QIvMZ0ZcOX
=ZWS7
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
