
Date: Sun, 31 May 2009 13:10:29 +0200
From: fukami <lists@....io>
To: full-disclosure <full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk>
Subject: CFP 26C3 / 26th Chaos Communication Congress


  26C3: Here Be Dragons
  26th Chaos Communication Congress
  December 27th to 30th, 2009
  Berlin, Germany http://events.ccc.de/congress/2009/


Overview
========

is the annual four-day conference organized by the Chaos Computer Club  
(CCC) in Berlin, Germany.First held in 1984, it since has established  
itself as "the European Hacker Conference" attracting a diverse  
audience of thousands of hackers, scientists, artists, and utopists  
from all around the world.

We want you to join and be a part of this unique event which serves as  
a public platform for cross-culture inspiration and borderless  
networking. 26C3 is fun!


Topics
======

The 26C3 conference program is roughly divided into six general  
categories. These categories serve as guidelines for your submissions  
(and later as a means of orientation for your prospective audience).  
However, it is not mandatory for your talk to exactly match the  
descriptions below. Anything that is interesting and/or funny will be  
taken into consideration.


Society
-------
Technology development causes great changes in society and will  
determine our future. This category is for all talks on subjects like  
surveillance practices, censorship, hacker tools and the law,  
intellectual property and copyright issues, data retention, software  
patents, effects of technology on kids, and the impact of technology  
on society in general.

Hacking
-------
The "Hacking" category addresses topics dealing with technology,  
concentrating on current research with high technical merit.  
Traditionally, the majority of all lectures at 26C3 revolve around  
hacking.

Topics in this domain include but are in no way limited to:  
programming, hardware hacking, cryptography, network and system  
security, security exploits, and creative use of technology.

Making
------
The "Making" category is all about making and breaking things and the  
wonderful stuff you can build in your basement or garage. Most welcome  
are submissions dealing with the latest in electronics, RepRaps,  
lasers, 3D-printing, climate-change survival technology, robots and  
flying UAVs, steam machines, alternative transportation tools,  
guerilla-style knitting, and wearable hardware hacks.

Science
-------
The "Science" category covers current or future objects of scientific  
research that have the potential to radically change our lives, be it  
basic research or projects conducted for the industry.

We are looking for talks and papers on the state of the art in this  
domain, covering subjects such as nano technology, quantum computing,  
high frequency physics, bio-technology, brain-computer interfaces,  
genetic hacking and hackteria, automated analysis of surveillance  
cctv, map-making, psychogeography etc.

Culture
-------
Shaping the world we live in means making it more interesting,  
entertaining and beautiful. The hacker culture has many facets ranging  
from electronic art objects, stand-up comedy, geek entertainment,  
video game and board game culture, electronically generated music, 3D  
art, and everything that bleeps and blinks to e-text literature and  
beyond. If you like to show your art and teach others how to make  
their lives more enjoyable, this category is for you.

Community
---------
In addition to individual speakers the Chaos Communication Congress is  
also inviting groups such as developer teams, projects and activists  
to present themselves and their topics.

Developer groups are also encouraged to ask for support to hold  
smaller on-site developer conferences and meetings in the course of  
the Congress.


Further Information
===================

The Chaos Communication Congress is a non-profit oriented event and  
speakers are not paid. However, financial help on travel expenses and  
accommodation is possible. It needs to be agreed upon after acceptance  
of the submission, though. Don't be shy and state your requirements in  
the application when submitting your lecture and we'll work something  
out!

You can find the preliminary agenda and additional information on our  
26C3 website at http://events.ccc.de/congress/2009/.

For further information and questions please feel free to contact 26C3- 
content  (at)  cccv.de


Submissions
===========

All proposals must be submitted online using our online lecture  
submission system at https://cccv.pentabarf.org/submission/26C3.  
Please follow the instructions given there. If you have any questions  
regarding your submission, feel free to contact us at 26C3-content   
(at)  cccv.de but do NOT submit your lecture via e-mail.


Language
========

26C3 is an international event and we want to have a lot of  
interesting talks in English for the benefit of our growing number of  
international guests. So ideally we are looking for speakers who can  
give lectures and/or workshops in either English or German. But while  
we are interested in maximizing the quality of presentations, the  
topic and its relevance to our community are our main concern. So  
don't worry about your English skills: the language of a submission is  
not a criteria for accepting or rejecting it!

If you're a native German speaker and feel insecure about talking in  
English, have received criticism on your language skills from your  
audience before, or if you just fear that the value and  
understandability of your lecture might suffer, please offer your talk  
in German.


Lecture Requirements
====================

Lectures should not exceed 45 minutes plus up to 10 minutes for  
questions and answers. Longer time slots are possible if we feel the  
topic demands it (please tell us if necessary). Workshops should  
include a talk on the basic principles in the lecture programm and a  
practical hands-on session in the workshop room.


Papers
======

Accepted speakers can optionally hand in a paper which will be  
published with an ISBN in the 26C3 Proceedings. Papers will be  
accepted in Portable Document Format (PDF) only and should be around  
5-10 pages. The PDF file must not be password-protected or contain  
other restrictions. Paper size should be DIN A4 (297x210mm) in  
portrait orientation. All margins must be set to at least 2 cm (0.78  
inches). Pictures should be high-contrasted, greyscaled and up to  
300dpi. Apart from that, you are free to use any layout you want.


Slides
======

Accepted speakers are asked to hand in slides used in their talks.  
Please use a well-known format for your slides. PDF is a wise choice.


Publication
===========

Audio and video recordings of the lectures will be published online in  
various formats. The Chaos Communication Congress Proceedings are  
published on paper and online. Only reviewed and accepted talks and  
presentations will be published.

All material will be available under the Creative Commons
"Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Germany" (BY-NC-ND) license  
allowing free non-commercial redistribution of the material as long as  
the original credit to authors and publishers is retained.

Licence URI: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/de/

We encourage contributors to publish their work under a more liberal  
license; if you wish to do so, please state this with your submission.


Dates and Deadlines
===================

The deadline for submission is October 9th, 2009 Midnight (23:59) UTC.  
Notification of acceptance will be sent by e-mail on November 8th,  
2009 the latest. However, you may very well get your notification  
earlier than that if needed. Final papers or slides are due by  
November 27th, 2009.

* October 9th, 2009 (Midnight UTC) Submission due
* November 8th, 2009 (Midnight UTC) Final notification of acceptance  
(or earlier)
* November 27th, 2009 (Midnight UTC) Final papers due
* December 27th - 30th, 2009 Chaos Communication Congress


_______________________________________________
Full-Disclosure - We believe in it.
Charter: http://lists.grok.org.uk/full-disclosure-charter.html
Hosted and sponsored by Secunia - http://secunia.com/
