
Date: Mon, 9 Jan 2017 12:37:13 -0800
From: Daemon Tamer <cfp@...deslv.org>
To: fulldisclosure@...lists.org
Subject: [FD] BSides Las Vegas 2017 CFP is open.

The CFP for BSides Las Vegas 2017 is currently open at
https://bsideslv.org/openconf/openconf.php.

We're accepting proposals for the following tracks:

Breaking Ground – Ground Breaking Information Security research and
conversations on the “Next Big Thing”. Interactively discussing your
research with our participants and getting feedback, input and opinion. No
preaching from the podium at a passive audience.

Common Ground – Other topics of interest to the security community. e.g.,
Lock-picking, hardware hacking, mental health/burnout, Law, Privacy,
Regulations, Risk, Crypto, Activism, etc. Again, interactive discussions
with your peers and fellow researchers. Not passive lectures “at” an
audience.

Underground – OTR talks on subjects best discussed AFK. No press, no
recording, no streaming, no names. Just you and your peers, discussing what
matters, behind closed doors. Think about it.

Ground Truth –  Focused on innovative computer science and mathematics
applied to security. Topics of interest include machine learning, natural
language processing, Big Data technologies, cryptography, compression, data
structures, zero knowledge proofs or just about anything academically
publishable that usually baffles review committees for other conferences.

I Am The Cavalry –  Security that affects public safety and human life.
Where our domain overlaps others, we must gather teammates and forge an
alliance. Technical discussions cover medical devices, cars, and other
connected technologies with a higher consequence of failure. Non-technical
talks cover issues where security overlaps with the human condition, and
building skills to influence change outside the echo chamber. See
Iamthecavalry.org or @iamthecavalry for more information.

PasswordsLV – Focused on the (in)security of passwords and other
authentication solutions, bringing together security researchers, password
crackers, and experts in password security from around the globe in order
to better understand and address the challenges surrounding digital
authentication. This track explores all facets of authentication security,
from analysis and education to creating, securing, cracking, and exploiting
authentication solutions. See passwordscon.org for more information.

Training Ground –  consists of workshops and classes to give your students
hands-on experience learning the latest and greatest. We accept proposals
for 1/2 day, full-day and 2-day workshops.

Proving Ground – Mentorship and Scholarship track for first time national
speakers. Get paired with a great mentor, who will help you with your
presentation from CFP to podium AND receive up to $500 to help offset the
costs of traveling to Vegas to present.

Hire Ground –   Our career track: Mock Interviews, Open Resume Review,
Recruiter Bingo.

To volunteer as a speaker or mentor, please a proposal to
https://bsideslv.org/openconf/openconf.php

BSidesLV is a 501(c)(3) NPO run on donations and the generous support of
our sponsors and is free to attend. We are not in a position to provide our
speakers with stipends, so if that is a prerequisite for your
consideration, please do not apply.

We hope to see you in Vegas this July 25th-26th!

The BSides Las Vegas CFP Team
https://www.bideslv.org

_______________________________________________
Sent through the Full Disclosure mailing list
https://nmap.org/mailman/listinfo/fulldisclosure
Web Archives & RSS: http://seclists.org/fulldisclosure/