
Date: Mon, 15 Mar 2010 16:23:49 +0100
From: astera <a.schneeweisz@...il.com>
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com,
	security-basics@...urityfocus.com, isn@...osecnews.org,
	darklab@...ts.darklab.org
Subject: PlumberCon 10 - Call for Papers

PlumberCon 10 Call For Participation

====================================


The Call For Papers for PlumberCon 10, 2nd edition, taking place in  
Vienna (Austria) is now open!

This year the conference will be held from July 09th - 11th (Fri -  
Sun) - in other words, the week between HitB Amsterdam and The Next  
H.O.P.E.


Introduction

------------

PlumberCon is a very unique hacker conference targeted at security  
researchers, system and network operators, application developers,  
hardware hackers, hackerspace members, and generally open-minded folks  
working or participating in the broad fields between information  
warfare and digital art.

It will combine the knowledge of experienced security speakers,  
hackers, and information warriors with the fun of a small but 1337  
conference at one of Vienna's most comfy & snugly meeting locations:  
the WerkzeugH. Its main goal is to help attendees understand the  
current state of art in information technology and security, and  
showcase projects evolved from the hackerspace movement.


This year's tagline: Make A Good Hack

-------------------------------------

After last year's tagline, 'The Internet is a Series of Tubes',  
PlumberCon 10 will take our approach towards security, hacking and  
technological innovation a step further, therefore being sub-entitled  
'Make A Good Hack!'.

Not only will you again have the chance to participate in workshops  
and the mainly security and networking-focused talks, but also get  
your hands on some hardware hacking, join in to various activities, or  
try your luck in the infamous challenge of PacketWars(tm). However  
much seriousness or amusement you bring into this, we'll make sure you  
get an overview of today's state-of-the-art technologies, insight into  
a bunch of the best hackers' mindsets, and learn new things!


Save the date: July 09th - 11th, 2010

-------------------------------------

The event is going to kick off with activities (including physical  
activity...), trainings, and an off-site biolab workshop followed by a  
small party on Friday, July 09th at Vienna's no. 1 hackerspace, the  
Metalab.

Talks & workshops will be held throughout Saturday & Sunday, July 10th  
& 11th respectively, also including a PacketWars game on Saturday  
night - making it 3 days and nights of talks, trainings, hands-on  
workshops, epic haXX0r battles and a little partying; the perfect  
combination of technology, IT security, hardware hacking, art, music,  
socializing and good times.


Have a talk to do with security, hacking, or making you'd like to  
submit?

------------------------------------------------------------------------

At PlumberCon 10, we are planning to have a selection of three  
trainings on Friday afternoon, a variety of 50-minute talks and hands- 
on workshops (of unlimited length) on Saturday and Sunday, as well as  
10-minute lightning talks (Sunday only).

Topics of interest include (but are in no way limited to) the following:


* Information technology

* Wireless network security

* Web application security assessment

* Virtualization and cloud computing

* Innovative attack strategies

* Honeypots

* Forensics

* Embedded devices

* Physical security and lockpicking

* Biometrics

* Hardware hacking

* Working with microcontrollers

* Phone phreaking

* Food- and Biohacking

* Open source software

* Evolutionary computing

* Robotics


To apply, shoot us an e-mail to cfp@...mbercon.org with your complete  
talk proposal and contact info!


Please include the following information in your submission:


* contact details (name & e-mail address)

* a brief bio (including qualifications, speaking experience, and  
affiliations)

* the title of your talk

* short intro & abstract (& any supporting materials, if available)

* the talk format you are submitting for (talk/panel/lightning talk/ 
demo/training/workshop)


Important Dates

---------------

If you are thinking of participating and sending in a submission,  
please let us know NO LATER than April 25th.

Absolute deadline for submission of abstracts is the 16th of May, 2010  
- all proposals submitted before this date will be considered.

Final notification of acceptence: May 24th;

final material submission (including slides and whitepapers) for  
accepted presentations: June 27th, 2010.


Sponsoring

----------

PlumberCon is a non-profit event and thankful for every helping hand  
it's given.

If you want to support the initiative and gain visibility by  
sponsoring, please contact us by writing an e-mail to sponsor@...mbercon.org


More details about PlumberCon and the CFP can be found at http://plumbercon.org


Disclaimer

----------

PlumberCon has full permission to record any material that is  
presented at the conference and make it available to the public under  
a Creative Commons license.

Unfortunately, PlumberCon will not be able to cover travel expenses.  
However, if you're coming in from out of state and are looking for a  
place to stay during the conference weekend, feel free to get in touch.



P.S.: Our apologies in case you received this message multiple times  
through different channels.

Hack on,
/astera

_______________________________________________
Full-Disclosure - We believe in it.
Charter: http://lists.grok.org.uk/full-disclosure-charter.html
Hosted and sponsored by Secunia - http://secunia.com/
