
Date: Mon, 10 Aug 2009 12:23:32 -0400
From: antisec@...hmail.com
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk
Subject: AntiSec PHHEER #3

AntiSec wants to thank all of the retards that made making fun of 
retards possible! Without all of the childish ideas of that AntiSec 
was founded on, we wouldn't be poking fun of every aspect that they 
claim is real! lulz!!!!!

Pantone Colors

According to "Standard Shades of the Korean Flag 1997-10", issued 
by the Ministry of Information in 1997, the officially recommended 
colours are red 186C and blue 294C in the Pantone Matching System.

Symbolism of the flag

The Korean national flag is called Taegukki. The meaning of Korean 
National Flag is very philosophical. The origin comes from the old 
oriental philosophy called the theory of Um-Yang, in Chinese 
pronunciation Yin-Yang. Yin means dark and cold, while Yang means 
bright and hot. The idea of Yin-Yang is supposed to be originated 
from the old Korean philosophy of Samshin meaning three gods. A 
very old book called Chuyok or Iching in Chinese, which was written 
by (a) Chinese several thousands years ago, claims all objects and 
events in the world are expressed by the movement of yin and yang. 
For example, the moon is yin while the sun is yang; the earth is 
yin and the heaven is yang; a woman is yin and a man is yang; the 
night is yin and the day is yang; the winter is yin and the summer 
is yang, etc. Yin and yang are relative. Therefore, A can be yin 
with respect to B while A can also be yang with respect to C. For 
instance, the spring is yin w.r.t. the summer and it is at the same 
time yang w.r.t. the winter. Yin and yang are opposite and struggle 
each other while they cooperate in harmony. The harmonious state of 
the movement of yin and yang is called Taeguki, or Taikukkki, 
Taichi in Chinese, which is also the name of the Korean national 
flag, i.e. Taegukki. Ki means a flag. (See the similarity between 
the concept of Yin-Yang-Taichi and the dialectics of thesis-
antithesis-synthesis.) The upper half circle, red, of Taeguk means 
yang and the lower half circle, blue, means yin. They stand for the 
state of harmony of yin and yang.

The symbols, called Kwae, in the four corners, mean the principle 
of movement and harmony. Basically, each Kwae consists of three 
bars that can be either broken or unbroken bars. A broken bar 
stands for yin while an unbroken bar stands for yang. For example, 
the upper left Kwae, called Kun, is composed of three solid 
unbroken bars. And the lower left Kwae, called Yi, is composed of 
two unbroken bars and one broken bar in between. Since one bar can 
be either broken or unbroken, i.e. same concept as bit as in the 
binary computer world, three bars can express 23 = 8 combinations. 
If you use four bars you can express 24=64 combinations; 10 bars, 
210=1024, etc. Therefore the more bars you use the more different 
situation you can express with Kwae. Among so many states of Kwae, 
i.e. principle of movement of objects and events, four basic Kwae 
are used in the Korean National Flag. Those are Kun meaning heaven, 
Yi meaning fire, Kam meaning water, and Kon meaning earth. Each of 
them symbolizes a different state of movement.
	___ 		___ 		_ _ 		_ _
Kun 	___ 	Yi 	_ _ 	Kam 	___ 	Kon 	_ _
	___ 		___ 		_ _ 		_ _

The white color of background stands for the peace and the purity 
of the Korean people who have loved to wear white colored clothes. 
Therefore, the Korean people have been called the white-clad nation.

To conclude, the symbols, Yin, Yang, Kun, Yi, Kam, and Kon, express 
the principle of the movement of all objects in the universe and 
the movement of the universe itself. It also stands for peace and 
harmony.

The white field represents the people's purity and their desire for 
peace, while the central emblem is the red and blue yin-yang 
symbol, depicting the concepts of creation and development through 
duality and balance. Surrounding this are four black KWAE symbols, 
which are taken from the I CHING and represent the four seasons, 
the four compass points, the four elements, and the sun, moon, 
earth, and heaven. They denote the process of yin and yang going 
through a spiral of change and growth.

    The Korean flag is called taegukki. Its design symbolizes the 
principles of the yin and yang in Oriental philosophy. The circle 
in the center of the flag is divided into two equal parts. The 
upper red section represents the positive cosmic forces of the 
yang. Conversely, the lower blue section represents the negative 
cosmic forces of the yin. The two forces together embody the 
concepts of continual movement and the balance and harmony that 
characterize the sphere of infinity. The circle is surrounded by 
four trigrams, one in each corner. Each trigram symbolizes one of 
the four universal elements: heaven, earth, fire and water."

Use and abuse of the flag

The concept of "Nation" or "Country" in eastern society is 
completely different from that of western society. If there are 
some more members from Asia, they may raise their hands for me. At 
least traditionally, the "Nation" is the target of absolute 
loyalty. Although the more individualized way of life might dilute 
such kind of thought, it is still in the basement of everybody's 
mind.

In that reason, everything which can signify the Nation itself is 
regarded as somewhat sacred. Not exactly sacred. But not abusable. 
It is quite rare for Koreans to use National flag somewhere else 
except for some important national ceremony, not to mention of 
modification of national flag.

As far as I know, in the Korean history, there were no political 
party which has their own flag which is from the modification of 
National flag except for the one. The one is the current major 
opposition party (I think so. not exactly. It may be now ruling 
party(?!;)).) But the shape is completely different from the 
National flag that without their explanation, you may not notice 
that that flag is from the national flag.

When I visited USA, I found many people put their national flag 
(miniaturized version) on their desk. Numerous national flags 
(stars & stripes) were in the office. It was quite impressive in 
the sense of Korean. They looks really patriotic. But that is their 
daily lives. Simply they do so since they like the design of stars 
& stripes.

_______________________________________________
Full-Disclosure - We believe in it.
Charter: http://lists.grok.org.uk/full-disclosure-charter.html
Hosted and sponsored by Secunia - http://secunia.com/
