
Date: Fri, 31 Jul 2009 07:27:06 +0530
From: Sky <whitematrix@...il.com>
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk
Subject: DNA (Daily News & Analysis) epaper Server Hacked

*DNA (Daily News & Analysis) epaper Server Hacked

Daily News and Analysis (DNA)* is a daily English newspaper published from
Mumbai / Bengaluru / Pune / Ahmedabad / Surat and Jaipur in India. DNA
(Mumbai) launched its first edition on 30th July (2005) targeted at a young
readership, DNA is India’s fastest growing English newspaper (Source:
Wikipedia article on DNA – Daily News & Analysis)
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DNA_(newspaper)


*Happy 4th Anniversary to DNA*

I would like to wish DNA (my favourite newspaper) a very Happy and a
Prosperous 4th Anniversary Year

On this Auspicious Occasion, i would like to provide all the Mumbaikars with
Free Access to the Complete (digital) Archives of DNA (Daily News and
Analysis) – Mumbai Edition

So who’s gonna treat me Vada Pav now ?

http://lh5.ggpht.com/_gbWPSul_tCM/SnIei4Pn82I/AAAAAAAAARA/T04qFj4Dkkc/s800/i_love_mumbai_vada_pav.jpg
*


Why was DNA (Daily News & Analysis) hacked ?*

The information printed in the newspapers, come from public sources (common
people), so charging them for the complete archives / back dated issues
through subscription is unfair, as a hacker i believe in the saying “All the
information should be free” and if anyone tries to deny that access to us OR
make us pay for it, then (no wonder) we are definitely gonna hack in there

http://lh6.ggpht.com/_gbWPSul_tCM/SnIS3bJ2r4I/AAAAAAAAAQ4/OmDyxvwCtzc/s800/archive_charges.jpg

Currently DNA provides access to only 7 back dated issues from the current
day, so i am gonna give out free access to the complete archives for DNA
(Mumbai Edition); i have been using this special access since the year 2006
( though never abused the server resources) i used it (only) whenever i
needed a issue or page (when i couldn’t get a hard copy)

http://lh3.ggpht.com/_gbWPSul_tCM/SnDW-gic2WI/AAAAAAAAAPw/MApjg_zl_9w/s800/DNA_free_editions.jpg

I could have broken (some) more security layers in order to steal all the
existing user account details containing email IDs / passwords / cell
numbers / other information on the epaper portal and could have sold it to
marketing / rival companies, but i haven’t done anything like that, its
because doing something like that wouldn’t suit me a true hacker and its
totally against my ethics

After the launch, DNA (Mumbai Edition) used to publish a lot of Indian tech
articles written by Indian journalists (reporters) related to (Indian
Scenario On) Cyber Warfare / Hackers / Hacking Incidents / New Improvements
in Technology Field / Security Stuffs / etc…….

Year by year, the number of (Indian) tech articles kept going down as the
newspaper went progressing too much, maybe they wanted to maintain their
current position and the greed to reach the top, since then DNA started
publishing tech articles written by foreign journalists / reporters (outside
India) into the backpages of (Mumbai) Edition

Mid-Day and DNA have been my favourite newspapers since it launced and i
read both of them anxiously; i enjoy reading them as they have at least
something (worth nice) to read sometimes

Its sad to say, but some of the tech articles are simply outdated and
published late in DNA (Mumbai Edition); most of the articles (any) written
by journalists doesn’t contain their email IDs; silly errors in some of the
articles (the below picture was published on July 28, 2009 – Page 22)

http://lh3.ggpht.com/_gbWPSul_tCM/SnISnJLIT0I/AAAAAAAAAQc/GwZsCOUlkVo/s800/DNA_error.jpg


*Your Free Access to Complete (digital) Archives of DNA (Mumbai Edition)*

Change the date / month / year and the page numbers in the below URLs to
gain access for the back dated issues of your choice

Please do not abuse the server resources; use the hacks only when you need
any issue / page (digital copy) to save the scanning charges (for hard
copies)

*Take a Sneak Peak @ the First (Mumbai) Edition of DNA (Daily News and
Analysis) which was published on 30th July, 2005*

DNA – Main Paper (Select any mirror below)

MediaFire
http://www.mediafire.com/file/mdmzw2nyim5/DNA_first_epaper_edition_hacked_Sky.pdf

RapidShare
http://rapidshare.com/files/261579604/DNA_first_epaper_edition_hacked_Sky.pdf.html

HotFile
http://hotfile.com/dl/9379854/7459bc2/DNA_first_epaper_edition_hacked_Sky.pdf.html

MegaUpload
http://www.megaupload.com/?d=JQMLLHOO

----------------

DNA – After hrs. (Select any mirror below))

MediaFire
http://www.mediafire.com/file/n5jgfydfdmd/DNA_first_edition_after_hrs_epaper_hacked_Sky.pdf

RapidShare
http://rapidshare.com/files/261579599/DNA_first_edition_after_hrs_epaper_hacked_Sky.pdf.html

HotFile
http://hotfile.com/dl/9380471/9d00b30/DNA_first_edition_after_hrs_epaper_hacked_Sky.pdf.html

MegaUpload
http://www.megaupload.com/?d=G9H0S7AM

----------------

DNA – Money (Business) (Select any mirror below)

MediaFire
http://www.mediafire.com/file/mmrizez22ym/DNA_money_first_edition_epaper_hacked_Sky.pdf

RapidShare
http://rapidshare.com/files/261579606/DNA_money_first_edition_epaper_hacked_Sky.pdf.html

HotFile
http://hotfile.com/dl/9380329/16e727a/DNA_money_first_edition_epaper_hacked_Sky.pdf.html

MegaUpload
http://www.megaupload.com/?d=YYNP5J80

----------------

DNA – Sport (Select any mirror below)

MediaFire
http://www.mediafire.com/file/i3wmhjwtozk/DNA_first_edition_sport_epaper_hacked_Sky.pdf

RapidShare
http://rapidshare.com/files/261579603/DNA_first_edition_sport_epaper_hacked_Sky.pdf.html

HotFile
http://hotfile.com/dl/9380522/7b6efd3/DNA_first_edition_sport_epaper_hacked_Sky.pdf.html

MegaUpload
http://www.megaupload.com/?d=B5FEPX3X


First Independence Day Issue by DNA – 15th August 2005 (Mumbai Edition – PDF
Format)

DNA – Main Paper
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14main edition-pg1-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14main edition-pg2-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14main edition-pg3-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14main edition-pg4-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14main edition-pg5-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14main edition-pg6-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14main edition-pg7-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14main edition-pg8-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14main edition-pg9-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14main edition-pg10-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14main edition-pg11-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14main edition-pg12-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14main edition-pg13-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14main edition-pg14-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14main edition-pg15-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14main edition-pg16-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14main edition-pg17-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14main edition-pg18-0.pdf

----------------

DNA – After hrs.
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14entertainment-pg1-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14entertainment-pg2-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14entertainment-pg3-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14entertainment-pg4-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14entertainment-pg5-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14entertainment-pg6-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14entertainment-pg7-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14entertainment-pg8-0.pdf

----------------

DNA – Money (Business)
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14business-pg1-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14business-pg2-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14business-pg3-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14business-pg4-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14business-pg5-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14business-pg6-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14business-pg7-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14business-pg8-0.pdf

----------------

DNA – Sport
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14sports-pg1-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14sports-pg2-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14sports-pg3-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14sports-pg4-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14sports-pg5-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14sports-pg6-0.pdf

----------------

Bio – DNA (Job Smart)
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14appointment-pg1-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14appointment-pg2-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14appointment-pg3-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14appointment-pg4-0.pdf


Weekly Editions – (PDF Format)

DNA Daily (Main Edition) (Monday to Saturday)
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582005/14main edition-pg1-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1582006/14main edition-pg1-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/15082007/14main edition-pg1-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/15082008/14main edition-pg1-0.pdf

DNA Money – Supplement (Monday to Saturday)
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1292005/11business-pg1-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1292006/11business-pg1-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/12092007/11business-pg1-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/12092008/11business-pg1-0.pdf

DNA Sport – Supplement (Monday to Saturday)
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/16112005/15sports-pg1-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/16112006/15sports-pg1-0.pdf

DNA After hrs. (Entertainment) – Supplements (Monday to Saturday)
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/26122005/25entertainment-pg1-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/26122006/25entertainment-pg1-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/26122007/25entertainment-pg1-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/26122008/25entertainment-pg1-0.pdf

Navi Mumbai – Supplement (Monday to Saturday)
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1392006/12split-pg1-0.pdf


Sunday Editions + Supplements (PDF Format)

DNA – Sunday Edition (Main Paper)
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/3172005/30sunday-pg1-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/2782006/26sunday-pg1-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/09092007/8sunday-pg1-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/28122008/27sunday-pg1-0.pdf

DNA After hrs – Sunday Supplement
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/3172005/30morning after-pg1-0.pdf

Sports – Sunday Supplement
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1682005/15sports-pg1-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/2782006/26sunsports-pg1-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/19082007/18sunsports-pg1-0.pdf

DNA YA (Young Adults) – Sunday Supplement (Magazine)
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/3172005/30ya-pg1-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/2782006/26ya-pg1-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/09092007/8ya-pg1-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/28122008/27ya-pg1-0.pdf


Weekly Supplements (PDF Format)

Bio – DNA (Job Smart) – Monday
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/182005/31appointment-pg1-0.pdf

dna Academy (Education) – Tuesday
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/282005/1education-pg1-0.pdf

Bollywood – Wednesday
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1392006/12bollywood-pg1-0.pdf

Rew Up (Auto Mobiles) – Thursday
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/482005/3auto mobile-pg1-0.pdf

Brick n Mortar (Real Estate) – Friday
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/422006/3real estate-pg1-0.pdf

Life 360 (Life Style) – Saturday
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/1382005/12life style-pg1-0.pdf

Destination (Dombivli / Kalyan) – Saturday
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/20062009/19thane-pg8-0.pdf
http://digital.dnaindia.com/epaperpdf/13062009/12thane-pg6-0.pdf


Accessing any DNA epaper issue in Image (JPG) Format

Change the variable (epaperpdf) in URL to (EpaperImages)

Small Image Format
http://digital.dnaindia.com/EpaperImages/27112008/26main edition-pg1-0.jpg

Medium Image Format
http://digital.dnaindia.com/EpaperImages/27112008/26main edition-pg1-0l.jpg

Large Image Format
http://digital.dnaindia.com/EpaperImages/27112008/26main edition-pg1-0ll.jpg


Security issues on the DNA (Daily News and Analysis) epaper Portal

On 6th July2009, i mailed the editor / webmaster / web team / authorized
employees, but never got a reply back from any of them, so i think they
(don’t care) are not interested in discussing this issue

http://lh3.ggpht.com/_gbWPSul_tCM/Sm-xPyMA7XI/AAAAAAAAAPM/J5wfJAquLcI/s800/my_email_DNA.jpg

The epapers / supplements / magazines can be accessed / retrieved directly
(in guest mode) without any authentication

Would you like to have a kewl email address login ID on the DNA epaper web
portal ?

If yes, then proceed to the registration page @
http://digital.dnaindia.com/registration.aspx

Register with any email address of your choice (you can even type out the
email address which doesn’t even exist for real), but it should be in the
email ID format

Once you have done that you will get a message box, which will say

"Confirmation
Thank you xxx (Your name) for  registering at http://digital.dnaindia.com
This registration will not be activated until you visit the confirmation URL
which has been emailed to xxx@....xxx (your email address)
Please click on the link given in the mail
NOTE :If you do not receive a mail immediately also check your bulkmail"

So as you don’t have the access to that mailbox or maybe the email ID you
used during registration doesn’t really exist, so copy paste the below URL
with your email ID in it to activate your kewl email ID login on DNA epaper
web portal

http://digital.dnaindia.com/update.aspx?userid=xxx@xxx.xxx

This is a automated weak authentication system implemented by the developer
who designed the DNA epaper portal (its usually done by low paid freelancers
/ inexperienced developer employees)

A small java script has been embedded into the epaper portal in order to
protect the users from right clicking and saving the images (onto their
computers)

Website issues and other malicious activities (performed on the server) are
not monitored by the webmaster / web team (which i believe consists of 12 –
15 people)


Dedications

I would like to dedicate this hack to all the Mumbaikars / Hackers / Small
Cute Kids out there………

http://lh6.ggpht.com/_gbWPSul_tCM/Sm-wsb8xtWI/AAAAAAAAAPI/c0yDDqle5Ok/s800/indian_independence_digital_kids_DNA.jpg


-- 
Sky
http://sky.net.in
whitematrix@...il.com
=============================

Content of type "text/html" skipped

_______________________________________________
Full-Disclosure - We believe in it.
Charter: http://lists.grok.org.uk/full-disclosure-charter.html
Hosted and sponsored by Secunia - http://secunia.com/
