
Date: Wed, 25 Mar 2015 19:05:56 -0400
From: Pierre-David / NorthSec Conference <conference@...c.io>
To: fulldisclosure@...lists.org
Subject: [FD] Announcing NorthSec 2015 - Montreal, May 21-24

www.nsec.io - northsec.eventbrite.ca

NorthSec 2015, one of the biggest applied security event in Canada,
coming up in Montreal May 21-24, with a 2-day technical conference
followed by a 48h on-site CTF.

The full line-up of speakers has been announced at
https://www.nsec.io/speakers featuring :

* KEYNOTE, from Chris Prince of the Office of the Privacy Comissioner of
Canada, here to talk about Privacy, Surveillance & Oversight.

* Joan Calvet, from ESET Montreal, to present on the Sednit Group &
recent developments.

* Eric Evenchick, speaking about CANbus hacking and the newly released
CANtact tool.

* Rene Freingruber, with a talk on the internals of the brand new EMET
5.2 version.

* Dave Lewis, examining tools, methods and data behind DDoS attacks.

* Trevor Perrin, coming back on Textsecure protocol, crypto challenges &
emerging use cases.

* Paul Rascagn√®res, from G Data, with a presentation about Uroburos
Malware Operation.

* Eugene Rodionov, will release a new version of HexraysCodeXplorer,
targetting OO code RE.

* Philip Youg, speaking about the ever-present Mainframes security (or
lack of thereof).

And many more announced on our website...


Registration is up at http://northsec.eventbrite.ca

----
About NorthSec :

For the last years, NorthSec has been building one of the biggest
applied security event in Canada, aimed at raising the knowledge and
technical expertise of professionals and students alike. We are
determined to create a high quality security forum composed of a two day
single track conference by the brightest in their field of expertise,
followed by an intense 48 hour on-site CTF contest. All of this in the
great city of Montreal, often cited as one of the best party/hedonistic
city & named 2014 traveller's choice.

The event has been recognized as one of the most relevant and
challenging of the industry by multiple partners :

"We at Symantec are proud to have sponsored North Sec 2014 and recognize
that this competition represents the next generation of the world's IT
security professionals! We'd like to thank all the people responsible
for organizing this great event and allowing us to be a part of it." -
(Symantec, 2014)

"The most prestigious and largest on site "Capture The Flag" competition
in North America." - (OKIOK, 2014)

Subjects covered range from Application & Infrastructure security :
pentesting, network security, software and/or hardware exploitation, web
hacking, reverse engineering, malware/virii/rootkits or anything
low-level that makes your personal clock tick !

We also will talk about cryptography & obvuscation, from theoretical
cryptosystems to applied cryptography exploitation, cryptocurrencies,
steganography and covert communication systems, anything goes !

Society & Ethics issues will be part of the show, since technical
subjects are at the core of the security field, but they also exist in a
world of humans, affected by their social environment & political
context. If you want to exchange great ideas about the digital society
and it's security implications, NorthSec's the place !

See you in Montreal !

----
The NorthSec Team.
https://www.nsec.io
https://www.twitter.com/@northsec_io
https://www.facebook.com/northsec.io

_______________________________________________
Sent through the Full Disclosure mailing list
https://nmap.org/mailman/listinfo/fulldisclosure
Web Archives & RSS: http://seclists.org/fulldisclosure/