
Date: Tue, 3 Dec 2019 18:00:22 +0100
From: Andrey Konovalov <andreyknvl@...il.com>
To: oss-security@...ts.openwall.com
Subject: Linux kernel: multiple vulnerabilities in the USB subsystem x3

Hi!

More CVEs for bugs in Linux kernel USB drivers that can be triggered
by an external malicious USB device. Found with syzkaller [1]. This
time no obvious DoSs (see the discussions here [2, 3]): mostly UAFs,
some info-leaks. All of these bugs have been fixed upstream (but many
other syzbot USB bugs are still not fixed [4]).

[1] https://github.com/google/syzkaller/blob/master/docs/linux/external_fuzzing_usb.md

[2] https://www.openwall.com/lists/oss-security/2019/08/20/2

[3] https://www.openwall.com/lists/oss-security/2019/10/25/15

[4] https://syzkaller.appspot.com/upstream?manager=ci2-upstream-usb

### CVEs

* https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-19523

In the Linux kernel before 5.3.7, there is a use-after-free bug that
can be caused by a malicious USB device in the
drivers/usb/misc/adutux.c driver, aka CID-44efc269db79.

* https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-19524

In the Linux kernel before 5.3.12, there is a use-after-free bug that
can be caused by a malicious USB device in the
drivers/input/ff-memless.c driver, aka CID-fa3a5a1880c9.

* https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-19525

In the Linux kernel before 5.3.6, there is a use-after-free bug that
can be caused by a malicious USB device in the
drivers/net/ieee802154/atusb.c driver, aka CID-7fd25e6fc035.

* https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-19526

In the Linux kernel before 5.3.9, there is a use-after-free bug that
can be caused by a malicious USB device in the drivers/nfc/pn533/usb.c
driver, aka CID-6af3aa57a098.

* https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-19527

In the Linux kernel before 5.2.10, there is a use-after-free bug that
can be caused by a malicious USB device in the
drivers/hid/usbhid/hiddev.c driver, aka CID-9c09b214f30e.

* https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-19528

In the Linux kernel before 5.3.7, there is a use-after-free bug that
can be caused by a malicious USB device in the
drivers/usb/misc/iowarrior.c driver, aka CID-edc4746f253d.

* https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-19529

In the Linux kernel before 5.3.11, there is a use-after-free bug that
can be caused by a malicious USB device in the
drivers/net/can/usb/mcba_usb.c driver, aka CID-4d6636498c41.

* https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-19530

In the Linux kernel before 5.2.10, there is a use-after-free bug that
can be caused by a malicious USB device in the
drivers/usb/class/cdc-acm.c driver, aka CID-c52873e5a1ef.

* https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-19531

In the Linux kernel before 5.2.9, there is a use-after-free bug that
can be caused by a malicious USB device in the
drivers/usb/misc/yurex.c driver, aka CID-fc05481b2fca.

* https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-19532

In the Linux kernel before 5.3.9, there are multiple out-of-bounds
write bugs that can be caused by a malicious USB device in the Linux
kernel HID drivers, aka CID-d9d4b1e46d95. This affects
drivers/hid/hid-axff.c, drivers/hid/hid-dr.c, drivers/hid/hid-emsff.c,
drivers/hid/hid-gaff.c, drivers/hid/hid-holtekff.c,
drivers/hid/hid-lg2ff.c, drivers/hid/hid-lg3ff.c,
drivers/hid/hid-lg4ff.c, drivers/hid/hid-lgff.c,
drivers/hid/hid-logitech-hidpp.c, drivers/hid/hid-microsoft.c,
drivers/hid/hid-sony.c, drivers/hid/hid-tmff.c, and
drivers/hid/hid-zpff.c.

* https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-19533

In the Linux kernel before 5.3.4, there is an info-leak bug that can
be caused by a malicious USB device in the
drivers/media/usb/ttusb-dec/ttusb_dec.c driver, aka CID-a10feaf8c464.

* https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-19534

In the Linux kernel before 5.3.11, there is an info-leak bug that can
be caused by a malicious USB device in the
drivers/net/can/usb/peak_usb/pcan_usb_core.c driver, aka
CID-f7a1337f0d29.

* https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-19535

In the Linux kernel before 5.2.9, there is an info-leak bug that can
be caused by a malicious USB device in the
drivers/net/can/usb/peak_usb/pcan_usb_fd.c driver, aka
CID-30a8beeb3042.

* https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-19536

In the Linux kernel before 5.2.9, there is an info-leak bug that can
be caused by a malicious USB device in the
drivers/net/can/usb/peak_usb/pcan_usb_pro.c driver, aka
CID-ead16e53c2f0.

* https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-19537

In the Linux kernel before 5.2.10, there is a race condition bug that
can be caused by a malicious USB device in the USB character device
driver layer, aka CID-303911cfc5b9. This affects
drivers/usb/core/file.c.
