
Date: Tue, 7 Jul 2009 23:24:48 -0400
From: Kalvin Dai <kalvin.dai@...il.com>
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk
Subject: Call for Papers - the 2nd IEEE International
	Symposium on Ubisafe Computing (UbiSafe-09)

Dear Professor or Colleague:

We apologize if you have received duplicate Call for Papers. You are
invited to submit papers for the 2nd IEEE International Symposium on
Ubisafe Computing (UbiSafe-09).

The 2nd IEEE International Symposium on Ubisafe Computing
(UbiSafe-09),  Sponsored by IEEE CS TCSC, will be held in Chengdu,
China, December 12-14, 2009. More infomation can be found in
http://cs.okstate.edu/ubisafe09/ .

In conjuction with
 the 8th IEEE International Conference on Dependable, Autonomic and
Secure Computing (DASC09) and
 the 8th IEEE International Conference on Pervasive Intelligence and
Computing(PICom09)

IMPORTANT DEADLINES:

  Submission Deadline:    Aug. 15, 2009
  Author Notification:    Sep. 30, 2009
  Final Manuscript Due:   Oct. 15, 2009

SYMPOSIUM INFORMATION:

Computers are now available anytime, anywhere, by different means, and
distributed unobtrusively throughout the everyday environments in which
physical objects/artifacts embedded with invisible computers are
sensible and networked locally and globally. Such "any" computers open
tremendous opportunities to provide numerous novel services/applications
in both real world and cyber spaces, and exist ubiquitously in our daily
life, working, learning, traveling, entertainment, medicine, etc.
Although it is yet unclear what exactly the real-cyber integrated worlds
would be, there is no doubt that they must be safe.

UbiSafe emphasizes the SAFE aspects for ubiquitous, pervasive, AmI,
mobile, universal, embedded, wearable, augmented, invisible, hidden,
context-aware, sentient, proactive, autonomic, or whatever it is called,
computing. UbiSafe computing is focused on theories and technologies for
ubiquitous artifacts to function safely for different purposes; for
ubiquitous systems to work safely in various situations; and for
ubiquitous environments to behave safely with all people. A series of
challenges exist to let people benefit from ubiquitous services, and
simultaneously guarantee their safety in making ubiquitous safe
artifacts, systems, and environments.

Following the great success of UbiSafe-07 held at Niagara Falls, Canada,
2007, the UbiSafe-09 Symposium provides a forum for engineers and
scientists in academia, industry, and government to address all safety
related profound challenges including technical, social, legal and
ethical issues, and to present and discuss their ideas, theories,
technologies, systems, tools, applications, work in progress and
experience on all aspects of UbiSafe computing.

Topics of particular interest include, but are not limited to:

* Fundamentals
 - UbiSafe concepts, definitions, basic elements, models, frameworks and
methodologies, human-centric paradigms,
multi-disciplinary/inter-disciplinary/trans-disciplinary approaches,
semantics, ontologies, UbiSafe requirements and formal specifications
and validations, information assurance, etc.

* Technologies
 - Security and privacy protection, reliability and fault tolerance,
risk analysis, uncertainty and exception handling, socially intelligent
agents, intuitive/natural user interface, interaction design,
context-awareness, intelligent computing, service-oriented computing,
hardware, software, middleware, etc.

* Systems
 - Embedded systems, wearable systems, augmented systems, context-based
systems, communication systems, safety-critical systems, survivable
systems, persistent systems, autonomous/autonomic systems, proactive
systems, network infrastructure, sensor networks, etc.

* Applications
 - Smart objects, smart environments, information appliance and
artifacts, everyday gadgets, robots, safety care, healthcare, medical
care and services, working, learning, traveling, entertainment, case
studies, etc.

* Measures and Assessments
 - UbiSafe attributes and measures for safety, trust, faith, amenity,
easiness, comfort, satisfaction and worryness, UbiSafe levels and
relations, UbiSafe quality, assessment criteria and authority,
subjective and objective assessment standards, evaluation methodologies,
testing, measuring and monitoring tools, etc.

* Human Factors and Social Issues
 - Human and social aspects of UbiSafe, UbiSafe sources and factors,
social rules, regulations and laws, human factors, human behavior
analysis, modeling of human feelings, traditional and cultural issues,
ethical issues, etc.

SUBMISSION INFORMATION:

Submit full papers not exceeding 8 pages in PDF format (IEEE Computer
Society Proceedings Manuscripts style: two columns, single-spaced),
including figures and references, using 10 fonts, and number each page.
You can download the IEEE CS Proceedings Author Guidelines from the
following web site
ftp://pubftp.computer.org/press/outgoing/proceedings/. UbiSafe-09
submission web site is at
http://cse.stfx.ca/~ubisafe09/sub<http://cse.stfx.ca/%7Eubisafe09/sub>
.

PAPER PUBLICATION:

Authors of accepted papers will receive guidelines on preparing and
submitting the final manuscript(s) together with the notification of
acceptance. The proceedings will be published by IEEE Computer Society
Press. Authors of accepted papers, or at least one of them, are required
to register and present their work at the conference, otherwise their
papers will be removed from the digital library after the conference.

Distinguished papers, after further revisions, will be published in one
of the following journals: Security and Communication Networks (SCN),
Journal of Autonomic and Trusted Computing (JoATC), and the Journal of
Ubiquitous Computing and Intelligence (JUCI).

GENERAL INFORMATION:

      GENERAL CHAIRS
      Xiaolin (Andy) Li, Oklahoma State University, USA
      Guojun Wang, Central South University, China
      Vijay Varadharajan, Macquarie University, Australia

      PROGRAM CHAIRS
      Ping Yang, SUNY Binghamton, USA
      Zhiwen Yu, Northwestern Polytech Univ., China
      Fabrizio Baiardi, University of Pisa, Italy

      STEERING COMMITTEE
      Vipin Chaudhary, University at Buffalo, SUNY, USA
      Jingde Cheng, Saitama University, Japan
      Thomas Grill, Johannes Kepler Univ. Linz, Austria
      Runhe Huang, Hosei University, Japan
      Ismail Khalil, Johannes Kepler Univ. Linz, Austria
      Qun Jin, Waseda University, Japan
      Xiaolin (Andy) Li, Oklahoma State University, USA
      Jianhua Ma, Hosei University, Japan
      Laurence T. Yang, St. Francis Xavier University, Canada
      Qiangfu Zhao, The University of Aizu, Japan

      PUBLICITY CHAIRS
      Xiaole Bai, Ohio State University, USA
      Emmanuelle Anceaume, IRISA, France

      PROGRAM COMMITTEE MEMBERS:
      See UbiSafe-09 web site: http://cs.okstate.edu/ubisafe09/

For further information please email to: ubisafe09@...glegroups.com

Content of type "text/html" skipped

_______________________________________________
Full-Disclosure - We believe in it.
Charter: http://lists.grok.org.uk/full-disclosure-charter.html
Hosted and sponsored by Secunia - http://secunia.com/
