
Date: Sun, 11 Feb 2018 13:42:25 -0800
From: omarbv@...eup.net
To: fulldisclosure@...lists.org
Subject: [FD] RootedCON Security Conference - 1-3 March, Madrid (Spain)

On the occasion of the ninth edition of RootedCON, the most important
computer security conference in the country, around  2,000 hackers will
meet to discuss new questions and researchs about the cybersecurity
world, with its risks and threats. National and international experts
have included in their agendas this mandatory appointment to discuss new
vulnerabilities, viruses, and other threats, they will also talk about
countermeasures in order to make this a safer world in the hands of
these professionals.

The event, which will be held at the same time in three rooms of the
cinemas Kinépolis of Ciudad de la Imágen – being Room 25 the main one on
Security – in Madrid, during the days 1, 2 and 3 of March will give rise
to leading talks where extremely technical talks will be combined, along
with others more oriented to the organization and the “management”.

Important players from the world of technology, the academic world,
professionals and companies, will meet at this event of reference, as
well as hackers and specialists involved in the protection of companies
of the IBEX35, or in the most advanced technology companies of the
moment. Professionals of the stature of Chema Alonso, Ilfak Guilfanov,
Raul Siles, Pedro Cabrera, Abel Valero, as well as many others, have
already been confirmed as “speakers” for this edition.

As in the previous edition, Room 19 of the Kinépolis cinemas will be
destined to the DevOps world, often forgotten, but RootedCON considers
it fundamental to build Community, the leitmotiv the RootedCON since it
started its journey 10 years ago.

For the first time, newcomers to the subject of cybersecurity, or those
who want to take their first steps in the profession. They will be
guided to Room 18.

The Security Congress will be supported by companies such as Telefónica,
Checkpoint, Fortinet, Symantec and Innovation4Security, among others, as
well as institutional support from the National Cryptographic Center
(CCN-CERT).

Tickets for this unique event can now be obtained through the congress
website: www.rootedcon.com

You are welcome!

Br,
Omar

_______________________________________________
Sent through the Full Disclosure mailing list
https://nmap.org/mailman/listinfo/fulldisclosure
Web Archives & RSS: http://seclists.org/fulldisclosure/