
Date: Mon, 29 Feb 2016 11:44:12 -0800
From: Jonathan Brossard <endrazine@...il.com>
To: fulldisclosure@...lists.org
Subject: [FD] Shakacon 2016 CFP - July 11-14 / Hawaii

	



----++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++----

	Shakacon VIII  - Honolulu, Hawaii



	"Sun, Surf, and C Shells"



	      CALL FOR PAPERS



       www.shakacon.org/CFP2016.html

----++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++----



Who:   	 Shakacon Crew

What:  	 Shakacon VIII

When:  	 July 11-12 (Training) & July 13-14 (Conference) - 2016

Where: 	 Honolulu, HI - Hawaii Prince Hotel Waikiki

Why:	 World Class Speakers, World Class Location, World Class People

How:   	 Beg, borrow, and save!







[Overview]



Going into our eighth year, Shakacon offers attendees a unique
opportunity to really network with some of the world's top security
professionals in casual and friendly setting. At its heart, the Shakacon
security conference is a laid back conference where industry,
government, academia, and independent experts will get together to share
knowledge and experience in one of the most beautiful places on Earth.



The conference committee strives to build a balanced schedule that
appeals to all security practitioners with talks covering all different
aspects of the information security landscape. There will be something
for everyone and if sitting through talks isn't your cup of Hawaiian
coffee, you can step into one of the social areas and talk with our
sponsors, staff, and attendees.



[Trainer Opportunities]



Don't want to speak at the Con but have an uncanny ability to teach and
a proven track record for delivering quality courseware and want to come
to Hawaii? We will be evaluating trainers for two days of training
leading up to Shakacon (July 11-12). Submit a synopsis/class agenda,
prior teaching experience, and maybe you'll get selected to teach in
Hawaii. Revenue is split 50/50 between the trainer and conference. The
conference will cover all venue related costs (A/V, Food, Drinks, etc.).
The trainer is expected to cover their own travel costs (unless they are
also selected as a speaker). All selected trainers will receive free
admission to the conference.



[CFP Details]



We have up to sixteen (16) spots and typically receive 100+ submissions
to speak. If you are serious about speaking, please submit your abstract
as soon as possible.



(1) Abstract for papers must be submitted to the review committee by
March 18, 2016.

(2) Selection notification will occur by April 1, 2016 and abstracts
posted to the site by April 15, 2016.

(3) Full Slides for your papers must be submitted by May 31, 2016.



As mentioned, there are a limited number of speaking sessions for which
the conference organizers will provide travel and accommodations so
please submit your abstract early if you are interested in speaking.
Speaking slots will be 50 minutes long (45 minutes for your talk and 5
minutes for Q&A). See [Speaker Benefits] section below for financial
details on speaker reimbursements.



The audience will be a broad mix of professional, academic, and
enthusiast, so we welcome both technical and non-technical submissions
on all aspects of security. The key criteria are practicality and
timeliness. We want to provide our attendees with up-to-date materials
they can take away and immediately gain benefit from, as well as new
research or tools. Absolutely NO SALES presentations will be accepted.



Proposals should include:



Subject Line:

"Shakacon CFP Submission: <paper title>, <your name>"



Body:



1. Name, address, and contact info.

2. Employer and/or affiliations.

3. Brief biography.

4. Presentation experience.

5. Topic summary.

6. Reason this topic should be considered.

7. Other publications or conferences where this material has been or
will be published/submitted.

8. Links to videos or slides showing previous presentations.



Please include plain text of all information provided in the body of
your email, as well as any file attachments. The plain text information
will be reviewed first to find the most suitable candidates.



Please forward the above information to cfp at shakacon.org in order to
be considered.



[Speaker Benefits]



Besides a cool speaker badge and the brightest speaker shirt you'll ever
lay your eyes on, Shakacon will reimburse speakers for two (2) hotel
nights and round trip coach airfare. If you choose to stay somewhere
other than the official Shakacon hotel, we will only reimburse for hotel
room nights at a less than or equal to cost. Reimbursable round trip
coach airfare cannot exceed $1,200.00 US without prior approval from the
conference organizers.



Speakers also receive free admission to the conference, all conference
related materials, and an invite to the private pre-conference dinner
with the conference organizers, staff, and fellow speakers.



[Trainer Benefits]



Trainers are responsible for their own travel and lodging unless other
arrangements have been made with the conference organizers. Trainers
should evaluate the minimum attendee requirements for their course and
plan for possible cancellation of their class if such minimums are not
met. Shakacon will take care of all venue costs (A/V equipment,
Internet, tables, chairs, food, beverages) for the training; however,
trainers are responsible for providing materials necessary for
conducting their class (hardcopy material, hardware, software,
switches). Revenue from the training class is split 50/50 between the
trainer and conference. Trainers receive free admission to the conference.



More conference information, registration details, and travel partner
deals will be posted to:

http://www.shakacon.org



Follow Status on:

www.twitter.com/shakacon



[Media Partners]



We are media friendly. Please email info at shakacon.org for inquiries
about press passes.



[CFP Review Team]



A big Mahalo to our CFP review committee:



Caleb Sima - BlueBox

Katie Mossouris - HackerOne

Cory Michal- Salesforce.com

Alberto Garcia - Salesforce.com

Colin Ames - Attack Research

Matthieu Suiche - MoonSols

Vincenzo Iozzo - TiQad

Kent Backman - Independent Researcher

Jonathan Brossard - Toucan System
Jeremiah Grossman - Whitehat Security

Daniel Hodson - Oxin Security & Ruxcon

Kris Harms - Cylance

Ryan Talabis - IBM

Chris Potter - Attack Research

Jason Martin - FireEye

Darryl Higa - Independent Researcher

Patrick Wardle - SynAck

Tammie Kim - Oracle

Josh Schwartz - Salesforce.com

Luis Santana - Salesforce.com

James Forshaw - Google

Natalie Silvanovich - Google



ALOHA FROM THE SHAKACON CREW!


Download attachment "signature.asc" of type "application/pgp-signature" (199 bytes)


_______________________________________________
Sent through the Full Disclosure mailing list
https://nmap.org/mailman/listinfo/fulldisclosure
Web Archives & RSS: http://seclists.org/fulldisclosure/
