
Date: Thu, 21 Jul 2005 09:13:51 +0200
From: Martin Pitt <martin.pitt@...onical.com>
To: ubuntu-security-announce@...ts.ubuntu.com
Cc: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk, bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: [USN-149-1] Firefox vulnerabilities

===========================================================
Ubuntu Security Notice USN-149-1	      July 21, 2005
mozilla-firefox vulnerabilities
CAN-2005-1937, CAN-2005-2260, CAN-2005-2261, CAN-2005-2263,
CAN-2005-2264, CAN-2005-2265, CAN-2005-2266, CAN-2005-2267,
CAN-2005-2268, CAN-2005-2269, CAN-2005-2270
===========================================================

A security issue affects the following Ubuntu releases:

Ubuntu 5.04 (Hoary Hedgehog)

The following packages are affected:

mozilla-firefox

The problem can be corrected by upgrading the affected package to
version 1.0.2-0ubuntu5.4. After a standard system upgrade you need to
restart Firefox to effect the necessary changes.

Please note that the Ubuntu 4.10 version is also affected; an upgrade
is in preparation.

Details follow:

Secunia.com reported that one of the recent security patches in
Firefox reintroduced the frame injection patch that was originally
known as CAN-2004-0718. This allowed a malicious web site to spoof the
contents of other web sites. (CAN-2005-1937)

In several places the browser user interface did not correctly
distinguish between true user events, such as mouse clicks or
keystrokes, and synthetic events genenerated by web content. This
could be exploited by malicious web sites to generate e. g. mouse
clicks that install malicious plugins. Synthetic events are now
prevented from reaching the browser UI entirely. (CAN-2005-2260)

Scripts in XBL controls from web content continued to be run even when
Javascript was disabled. This could be combined with most script-based
exploits to attack people running vulnerable versions who thought
disabling Javascript would protect them. (CAN-2005-2261)

Matthew Mastracci discovered a flaw in the addons installation
launcher. By forcing a page navigation immediately after calling the
install method a callback function could end up running in the context
of the new page selected by the attacker. This callback script could
steal data from the new page such as cookies or passwords, or perform
actions on the user's behalf such as make a purchase if the user is
already logged into the target site. However, the default settings
allow only http://addons.mozilla.org to bring up this install dialog.
This could only be exploited if users have added untrustworthy sites
to the installation whitelist, and if a malicious site can convince
you to install from their site. (CAN-2005-2263)

Kohei Yoshino discovered a Javascript injection vulnerability in the
sidebar. Sites can use the _search target to open links in the Firefox
sidebar. A missing security check allowed the sidebar to inject
"data:" URLs containing scripts into any page open in the browser.
This could be used to steal cookies, passwords or other sensitive
data. (CAN-2005-2264)

The function for version comparison in the addons installer did not
properly verify the type of its argument. By passing specially crafted
Javascript objects to it, a malicious web site could crash the browser
and possibly even execute arbitrary code with the privilege of the
user account Firefox runs in. (CAN-2005-2265)

A child frame can call top.focus() even if the framing page comes from
a different origin and has overridden the focus() routine. Andreas
Sandblad discovered that the call is made in the context of the child
frame. This could be exploited to steal cookies and passwords from the
framed page, or take actions on behalf of a signed-in user. However,
web sites with above properties are not very common. (CAN-2005-2266)

Several media players, for example Flash and QuickTime, support
scripted content with the ability to open URLs in the default browser.
The default behavior for Firefox was to replace the currently open
browser window's content with the externally opened content. Michael
Krax discovered that if the external URL was a javascript: URL it
would run as if it came from the site that served the previous
content, which could be used to steal sensitive information such as
login cookies or passwords. If the media player content first caused a
privileged chrome: url to load then the subsequent javascript: url
could execute arbitrary code. (CAN-2005-2267)

Alerts and prompts created by scripts in web pages were presented with
the generic title [JavaScript Application] which sometimes made it
difficult to know which site created them. A malicious page could
exploit this by causing a prompt to appear in front of a trusted site
in an attempt to extract information such as passwords from the user.
In the fixed version these prompts contain the hostname of the page
which created it. (CAN-2005-2268)

The XHTML DOM node handler did not take namespaces into account when
verifying node types based on their names. For example, an XHTML
document could contain an <IMG> tag with malicious contents, which
would then be processed as the standard trusted HTML <img> tag. By
tricking an user to view malicious web sites, this could be exploited
to execute attacker-specified code with the full privileges of the
user. (CAN-2005-2269)

It was discovered that some objects were not created appropriately.
This allowed malicious web content scripts to trace back the creation
chain until they found a privileged object and execute code with
higher privileges than allowed by the current site.  (CAN-2005-2270)


  Source archives:

    http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/m/mozilla-firefox/mozilla-firefox_1.0.2-0ubuntu5.4.diff.gz
      Size/MD5:   901156 7d129844042561aec3373c338ae50da6
    http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/m/mozilla-firefox/mozilla-firefox_1.0.2-0ubuntu5.4.dsc
      Size/MD5:     1058 91c2a87189e22af2dcc03e5e2cfc69db
    http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/m/mozilla-firefox/mozilla-firefox_1.0.2.orig.tar.gz
      Size/MD5: 41023585 7e98ce4aefc5ea9b5f1f35b7a0c58f60

  amd64 architecture (Athlon64, Opteron, EM64T Xeon)

    http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/m/mozilla-firefox/mozilla-firefox-dev_1.0.2-0ubuntu5.4_amd64.deb
      Size/MD5:  2631798 331c9f3d9ae8a842130f889423cbae07
    http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/m/mozilla-firefox/mozilla-firefox-dom-inspector_1.0.2-0ubuntu5.4_amd64.deb
      Size/MD5:   157476 1984a251769899721cb3524b4e7d34cf
    http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/m/mozilla-firefox/mozilla-firefox-gnome-support_1.0.2-0ubuntu5.4_amd64.deb
      Size/MD5:    56730 4f6ebca89f5b503c3678354938b28d63
    http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/m/mozilla-firefox/mozilla-firefox_1.0.2-0ubuntu5.4_amd64.deb
      Size/MD5:  9764306 ce853daaf0039025b5a911345c519e87

  i386 architecture (x86 compatible Intel/AMD)

    http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/m/mozilla-firefox/mozilla-firefox-dev_1.0.2-0ubuntu5.4_i386.deb
      Size/MD5:  2631766 1fd464e44cc272526ac48634e7fd2b08
    http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/m/mozilla-firefox/mozilla-firefox-dom-inspector_1.0.2-0ubuntu5.4_i386.deb
      Size/MD5:   152370 585a235429807cd05b0b0621fc3e9db3
    http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/m/mozilla-firefox/mozilla-firefox-gnome-support_1.0.2-0ubuntu5.4_i386.deb
      Size/MD5:    53344 21da121beb266f5f99973e7f7f9e327e
    http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/m/mozilla-firefox/mozilla-firefox_1.0.2-0ubuntu5.4_i386.deb
      Size/MD5:  8793476 83ed14939ec232417f80a14165ec2261

  powerpc architecture (Apple Macintosh G3/G4/G5)

    http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/m/mozilla-firefox/mozilla-firefox-dev_1.0.2-0ubuntu5.4_powerpc.deb
      Size/MD5:  2631838 d4197428d1b5a923cb0855896740d2c2
    http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/m/mozilla-firefox/mozilla-firefox-dom-inspector_1.0.2-0ubuntu5.4_powerpc.deb
      Size/MD5:   151184 06ce5e6001caf2f419edd4c99d4c434c
    http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/m/mozilla-firefox/mozilla-firefox-gnome-support_1.0.2-0ubuntu5.4_powerpc.deb
      Size/MD5:    55982 ae0309f3ef3d5440716e58f9b722b2b7
    http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/m/mozilla-firefox/mozilla-firefox_1.0.2-0ubuntu5.4_powerpc.deb
      Size/MD5:  8455944 02e721acebbcb9106b4a806baf4e53be

Download attachment "signature.asc" of type "application/pgp-signature" (190 bytes)

_______________________________________________
Full-Disclosure - We believe in it.
Charter: http://lists.grok.org.uk/full-disclosure-charter.html
Hosted and sponsored by Secunia - http://secunia.com/
