
Date: Tue, 20 Aug 2019 20:20:34 +0200
From: Andrey Konovalov <andreyknvl@...il.com>
To: oss-security@...ts.openwall.com
Subject: Linux kernel: multiple vulnerabilities in the USB subsystem x2

Hi!

I've previously reported vulnerabilities in the Linux kernel USB
drivers on this list [1] found with syzkaller [2]. The USB fuzzing
project has been on hold for a while, but has been resumed earlier
this year. Here's a new bunch of 15 CVEs.

As an experiment this time I've requested CVEs for 2 bugs
(CVE-2019-15290, CVE-2019-15291) that haven't yet been fixed (fixes
for the other 13 bugs are in the upstream kernel). Both have been
reported by syzbot over 4 months ago. I've made sure that these 2 bugs
are reproducible with a crafted USB device and crash a Linux laptop
(or rather crash the USB worker thread) with one of the distro
kernels.

There are many more still not fixed bugs shown here [3].

[1] https://www.openwall.com/lists/oss-security/2017/12/12/7

[2] https://github.com/google/syzkaller/blob/master/docs/linux/external_fuzzing_usb.md

[3] https://syzkaller.appspot.com/upstream?manager=ci2-upstream-usb

### CVEs

* https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-15290

An issue was discovered in the Linux kernel through 5.2.9. There is a
NULL pointer dereference caused by a malicious USB device in the
ath6kl_usb_alloc_urb_from_pipe function in the
drivers/net/wireless/ath/ath6kl/usb.c driver.

* https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-15291

An issue was discovered in the Linux kernel through 5.2.9. There is a
NULL pointer dereference caused by a malicious USB device in the
flexcop_usb_probe function in the drivers/media/usb/b2c2/flexcop-usb.c
driver.

* https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-15211

An issue was discovered in the Linux kernel before 5.2.6. There is a
use-after-free caused by a malicious USB device in the
drivers/media/v4l2-core/v4l2-dev.c driver because
drivers/media/radio/radio-raremono.c does not properly allocate
memory.

* https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-15212

An issue was discovered in the Linux kernel before 5.1.8. There is a
double-free caused by a malicious USB device in the
drivers/usb/misc/rio500.c driver.

* https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-15213

An issue was discovered in the Linux kernel before 5.2.3. There is a
use-after-free caused by a malicious USB device in the
drivers/media/usb/dvb-usb/dvb-usb-init.c driver.

* https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-15214

An issue was discovered in the Linux kernel before 5.0.10. There is a
use-after-free in the sound subsystem because card disconnection
causes certain data structures to be deleted too early. This is
related to sound/core/init.c and sound/core/info.c.

* https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-15215

An issue was discovered in the Linux kernel before 5.2.6. There is a
use-after-free caused by a malicious USB device in the
drivers/media/usb/cpia2/cpia2_usb.c driver.

* https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-15216

An issue was discovered in the Linux kernel before 5.0.14. There is a
NULL pointer dereference caused by a malicious USB device in the
drivers/usb/misc/yurex.c driver.

* https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-15217

An issue was discovered in the Linux kernel before 5.2.3. There is a
NULL pointer dereference caused by a malicious USB device in the
drivers/media/usb/zr364xx/zr364xx.c driver.

* https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-15218

An issue was discovered in the Linux kernel before 5.1.8. There is a
NULL pointer dereference caused by a malicious USB device in the
drivers/media/usb/siano/smsusb.c driver.

* https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-15219

An issue was discovered in the Linux kernel before 5.1.8. There is a
NULL pointer dereference caused by a malicious USB device in the
drivers/usb/misc/sisusbvga/sisusb.c driver.

* https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-15220

An issue was discovered in the Linux kernel before 5.2.1. There is a
use-after-free caused by a malicious USB device in the
drivers/net/wireless/intersil/p54/p54usb.c driver.

* https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-15221

An issue was discovered in the Linux kernel before 5.1.17. There is a
NULL pointer dereference caused by a malicious USB device in the
sound/usb/line6/pcm.c driver.

* https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-15222

An issue was discovered in the Linux kernel before 5.2.8. There is a
NULL pointer dereference caused by a malicious USB device in the
sound/usb/helper.c (motu_microbookii) driver.

* https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2019-15223

An issue was discovered in the Linux kernel before 5.1.8. There is a
NULL pointer dereference caused by a malicious USB device in the
sound/usb/line6/driver.c driver.
