
Date: Thu, 10 Dec 2009 14:54:14 +0000
From: cyber armageddon <cyberarmageddon@...glemail.com>
To: full-disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk
Subject: Re: The Cyber War Conspiracy

Comedian Sacha Baron Cohen is facing a $110m (£67.5m) libel action
from a Palestinian man who says the film Bruno wrongly branded him a
terrorist.

Shopkeeper Ayman Abu Aita was interviewed for the 2009 comedy and
captioned as a member of militant group al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigade.

He is also suing US talk show host David Letterman after he and Cohen
discussed meeting a "terrorist".

http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/8405271.stm

http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2009/dec/10/baron-cohen-sued-over-terrorism-claim

http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2009/12/09/ayman-abu-aita-sues-bruno_n_386294.html

On Sat, Dec 5, 2009 at 2:21 PM, Sam Haldorf <sahalderf@...il.com> wrote:

Why do you speak of yourself in quotes? It makes you look batshit insane.

Andrew Wallace sounds like a terrorist. He's psychologically projecting.

n3td3v could be a legitimate cyber threat, in my opinion. He's a
_creepy_ person.

On Mon, Nov 30, 2009 at 7:08 PM, Sam Haldorf <sahalderf@...il.com> wrote:

This is just doing too far.

He's obviously a paranoid schizophrenic who uses aliases to bring
attention to himself. This means he's a loose cannon. A potential lone
wolf terrorist. Who knows, he may decide to do something nasty to
bring attention to his causes.

It's obvious as Andrew Wallace's paranoia grows, his interest is going
from infosec (trolling FD) to real life. He may to adapt his
attention-seeking MO to real life, where he may harm real people. See
what I mean?

You know what you have to do.

http://preview.tinyurl.com/report-n3td3v-to-MI5

Paste his paranoid ramblings in there. This will help the government
prevent n3td3v from causing harm. They will keep a good eye on him.

Warning: Do _not_ lie or in anyway misrepresent the truth when
reporting him. Just state the obvious if you do infact consider him a
threat. Which I obviously do.

Thank you,
Sam H

On Fri, Nov 20, 2009 at 3:40 AM, Sam Haldorf <sahalderf@...il.com> wrote:

Earlier this year, a very well educated FD member posted the
psychological profile of Mr. Wallace. (Found here:
http://seclists.org/fulldisclosure/2009/Jan/415 ) Interesting to view
in retrospect, because I find it depicts him to a T.

This profile is almost like an instruction set for n3td3v's life. A
self-fulfilling prophecy if you will.

 An eery example: Anyone here remember how n3td3v posted as
full-censorship a few months ago claiming to be a martyr?
http://seclists.org/fulldisclosure/2009/Oct/45 . His profile states
"Martyr glamorizations" aren't just n3td3v trolling you, he really
considers himself as such. All the while you go out and bang your
girlfriends and have fun with your friends, he's thinking the world
revolves around him.

Another example is his frequent, obvious, though earnest attempts at
using pseudonyms to defend himself. Often speaking of himself in
third-person, as a hired lawyer, a hacker, zealous advocate, an
underground "Full censorship" movement, etc.

It's possible as of late he may have done another attention-seeking
false suicide. He hasn't updated his Google Page or Twitter in over 48
hours. I'm seriously worried. He may be wasting taxpayer money with
fake suicide attempts. He's trolling society now.

I would like to post Andrew Wallace's psychological profile verbatim:

=======================================
   Psychological profile of n3td3v / Andrew Wallace
=======================================

Andrew is a special kind of crazy....a friend of mine and former
colleague who I highly respect (practicing Psych., who profiles
individuals for a real doggone intel agency...alas, not MI-Jive)
labeled Andrew as a probable schizophrenic with grandiose
idealizations.

These types of people usually can't hold a job.  The most active
period of delusions occur from 17-33, some think the drop-off may be
due to decreased levels of testosterone as they age.  Intelligence
agency intrigue & innuendo is a classic manifestation, along with
imaginary friends, martyr glamorizations, alternate personalities and
repeated exclamations that they will curtail their behaviors, only to
come back, roaringly, foisting themselves upon a group/friend circle
with a different guise or mission. Some have said it resembles
alcoholic behavior in the promises "to quit..."

They constantly need an audience, since 'friends' are temporal at
best...they churn through relationships like shit flowing through a
goose...as people become estranged/exasperated with the constant
epiphany's, revelations and God-like interpretations.

Stranger yet is that people like this can be wonderfully charming in
real-life....funny for awhile, but as they age, they start losing
boyish charms that previously were
forgiven...promulgating even more outlandish behavior as grow older.
Sound familiar?  We have a baseline here, folks.  Also notice he
hasn't written anything technical -- it's mostly outlandish hypothesis
with pointers to..not infosec...but Andrew.

They usually refuse medications to control themselves, because it
dulls the essence of what they're trying to portray: someone
mysterious, withholding critical information, being the sole-source of
knowledge that might somehow change the world.

IMHO, I would venture to say Andrew has attempted suicide -- his type
is usually unsuccessful, indeed, it's not a suicide attempt but an
attention-seeking event.

He's bat-shit-fucking-crazy-nuts, but sane enough to fool someone
unfamiliar with his MO.  That's what is so aggravating about this
particular form of mental illness...once again, as long as there's a
receptive audience, the monkey will feel the compulsion to perform.
It's akin to sexual gratification for him to see he's the subject of
people's ire...don't forget that.

This type of person will emotionally soul-suck everyone he comes in
contact with, and make up dramas if only to suck more
people in, because really, it's all about the adulation of
n3td3v/Andrew/????, nothing else.

Solutions:  There's a few, but I wouldn't want to be responsible for
the end result; once again, n3td3v is a human たまごっち (Tamagotchi) and
should be treated accordingly.

Source: http://seclists.org/fulldisclosure/2009/Jan/415  ( - o z - )

_______________________________________________
Full-Disclosure - We believe in it.
Charter: http://lists.grok.org.uk/full-disclosure-charter.html
Hosted and sponsored by Secunia - http://secunia.com/
