
Date: Sat,  6 Nov 2010 17:47:22 +0100 (CET)
From: Konrad Rieck <konrad.rieck@...berlin.de>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com
Subject: CFP: DIMVA 2011 - Detection of Intrusions and Malware & Vulnerability Assessment

    (We apologize if you receive multiple copies of this message.)


                           CALL FOR PAPERS

                              DIMVA 2011

                  Eighth International Conference on
    Detection of Intrusions and Malware & Vulnerability Assessment


                      Organized by GI SIG SIDAR
                         In Cooperation with
      IEEE Computer Society Task Force on Information Assurance

                      Amsterdam, The Netherlands
                            July 7-8 2011

                    http://www.dimva.org/dimva2011
                            info@...va.org

----------------------------------------------------------------------

The annual  DIMVA conference serves  as a premier forum  for advancing
the state  of the art  in intrusion detection, malware  detection, and
vulnerability   assessment.    Each   year   DIMVA   brings   together
international  experts  from  academia,  industry  and  government  to
present and discuss novel research  in these areas. DIMVA is organized
by  the special  interest  group Security  -  Intrusion Detection  and
Response  (SIDAR)  of  the   German  Informatics  Society  (GI).   The
conference  proceedings  will appear in   Springer's  Lecture Notes in
Computer Science (LNCS) series.

DIMVA solicits  submission of high-quality,  original scientific work.
This year we invite two types of paper submissions:

* Full  papers, presenting  novel and  mature research  results.  Full
  papers  are   limited  to  20  pages,  prepared   according  to  the
  instructions provided  below. They will  be reviewed by  the program
  committee, and  papers accepted  for presentation at  the conference
  will be included in the proceedings.

* Short  papers  (extended   abstracts),  presenting  original,  still
  ongoing work  that has not yet  reached the maturity  required for a
  full paper. Short papers are limited to 10 pages, prepared according
  to the  instructions provided below.  They will also be  reviewed by
  the program  committee, and papers accepted for  presentation at the
  conference will be included  in the proceedings (containing Extended
  Abstract in the title).


DIMVA's scope includes, but is not restricted to the following areas:

* Intrusion Detection
  + Novel approaches & new environments
  + Insider detection
  + Prevention & response
  + Data leakage
  + Result correlation & cooperation
  + Evasion attacks
  + Potentials & limitations
  + Operational experiences
  + Privacy, legal & social aspects

* Malware Detection
  + Automated analysis, reversing & execution tracing
  + Containment & sandboxed operation
  + Acquisition of specimen
  + Infiltration
  + Behavioral models
  + Prevention & containment
  + Trends & upcoming risks
  + Forensics & recovery
  + Economic aspects

* Vulnerability Assessment
  + Vulnerability detection & analysis
  + Vulnerability prevention
  + Web application security
  + Fuzzing techniques
  + Classification & evaluation
  + Situational awareness



Organizing Committee

  General Chair:      Herbert Bos, VU University Amsterdam, the 
                      Netherlands (info@...va.org)
  Program Chair:      Thorsten Holz, Ruhr-University Bochum, 
                      Germany (pc-chair@...va.org)
  Local Chair:        Asia Slowinska, VU University Amsterdam, 
                      the Netherlands (dimva2011-local-chair@...va.org)
  Sponsoring Chair:   Damiano Bolzoni, University of Twente, the 
                      Netherlands (sponsor-chair@...va.org)
  Publicity Chair:    Konrad Rieck, (dimva2011-local-chair@...va.org)
                      Damiano Bolzoni, University of Twente, the 
                      Netherlands (publicity-chair@...va.org)
  Workshops and 
  Events Chair:       Lorenzo Cavallaro, VU University Amsterdam, 
                      the Netherlands (dimva-oc@...vu.nl)

Program Committee

  * Michael Bailey, University of Michigan, USA
  * Herbert Bos, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, The Netherlands
  * Juan Caballero, IMDEA Software, Spain
  * Lorenzo Cavallaro, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, The Netherlands
  * Marco Cova, University of Birmingham, UK
  * Sven Dietrich, Stevens Institute of Technology, USA
  * Ulrich Flegel, Offenburg University of Applied Sciences, Germany
  * Felix Freiling, University of Erlangen-Nurnberg, Germany
  * Thorsten Holz, Ruhr-University Bochum, Germany
  * Martin Johns, SAP Research, Germany
  * Engin Kirda, Eurecom, France
  * Christian Kreibich, International Computer Science Institute, USA
  * Christopher Kruegel, University of California, Santa Barbara, USA
  * Pavel Laskov, University of Tuebingen, Germany
  * Wenke Lee, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
  * Corrado Leita, Symantec Research Labs, France
  * Lorenzo Martignoni, University of California, Berkeley, USA
  * Michael Meier, Technical University of Dortmund, Germany
  * Paolo Milani Comparetti, Vienna University of Technology, Austria
  * Konrad Rieck, TU Berlin, Germany
  * Robin Sommer, ICSI/LBNL, USA
  * Dongyan Xu, Purdue University, USA


Important Dates

  Deadline for paper submission:                    January  14, 2011
  Notification of acceptance/rejection:             April     1, 2011
  Final camera-ready copies due:                    April    22, 2011
  Conference:                                       July    7-8, 2011


Paper Submission

Please note that the submission deadline for DIMVA'11 is earlier com-
pared to previous years.

All papers  must be  submitted electronically in  PDF format  via the
conference Web site.  Submissions must be formatted  according to the
instructions provided by Springer Verlag.  For instructions, see
http://www.springer.de/comp/lncs/authors.html .

Submitted  papers  must be  in  English  and  must not  substantially
overlap   work  that   has  been   published  before,   or   that  is
simultaneously  in  submission to  a  journal  or  a conference  with
proceedings.   Simultaneous  submission,  submission   of  previously
published work, and plagiarism  constitute dishonesty or fraud. DIMVA
prohibits  these practices  and may  take appropriate  action against
authors who have committed them.

Authors of accepted papers must ensure that their papers will be pre-
ented at the conference.  Presentations must also be held in English.
Details about the electronic submission procedure will be provided on
the conference Web site by the middle of  December  2011.  Authors of   
accepted papers must follow the  Springer guidelines for  preparation
of camera-ready copies.  Details  of the process will be  provided to
the authors in time.


Sponsorship Opportunities

We solicit  interested organizations to  serve as sponsors  for DIMVA
2011; please contact the  sponsorship chair for information regarding
corporate sponsorship (sponsor-chair@...va.org).


Steering Committee

Chairs:

  * Ulrich Flegel, SAP Research, Germany
  * Michael Meier, Technical University of Dortmund, Germany

Members:

  * Roland Bueschkes, RWE, Germany
  * Danilo M. Bruschi, Universita degli Studi di Milano, Italy
  * Herve Debar, France Telecom R&D, France
  * Bernhard Haemmerli, Acris GmbH & HSLU Lucerne, Switzerland
  * Marc Heuse, Baseline Security Consulting, Germany
  * Marko Jahnke, Fraunhofer FKIE, Germany
  * Klaus Julisch, IBM Zurich Research Lab, Switzerland
  * Christian Kreibich, International Computer Science Institute, USA
  * Christopher Kruegel, UC Santa Barbara, USA
  * Pavel Laskov, University of Tuebingen, Germany
  * Robin Sommer, ICSI/LBNL, USA
  * Diego Zamboni, IBM Zurich Research Lab, Switzerland
