
Date: Fri, 9 Jul 2010 19:15:44 -0400
From: Brian Hatfield <brianhtfld2@...il.com>
To: Full-Disclosure@...ts.grok.org.uk
Subject: ATTENTION BKA,
	GCHQ and FBI - would you like the full names and information on
	folks involved in the iPad hack???

As a public service to my country, I would like to save some tax dollars and
bring the real criminals to justice.

They are operating under the collective name of "Sand Net" and have had a
long standing vitriolic hatred against Apple Computer.  They have publicly
stated that their mission is to disrupt the business of Apple Computer and
to publicly embarrass them.  They intend to anger users and customers of
Apple Computer products and undermine the public's trust in Apple Comptuer.
To this end, they have, in violation of the DMCA, examined Apple software
for faults and fed zero-day security vulnerabilities to
press-release-writing groups such as "goatse security" and "amit security"
for wide distribution.

They have also forged and uploaded to the Wikileaks web site a purported
medical record which was expressly manufactured to lead the public to
believe that Steve Jobs is infected with the HIV virus.  The purpose of this
act was to cause deliberate harm to Apple Computer by reducing investor
confidence and shrinking its market capitalization.

They claim to have additional vulnerabilities, yet to be released, which
target the following Apple products:  iChat, iWork, OSX 10.6, and Safari.
They have also developed a malicious worm which infects iPod and iPhone
devices, and have taken advantage of the lack of OSX antivirus/antimalware
tools to develop trojans and viruses which contain keyloggers and enable
remote control of Apple computers.  They are using these malicious softwares
to steal users' identities, steal money from their bank accounts and paypal,
forward unsolicited commercial email (also known as SPAM) and to act as a
distributed hosting platform to provide access to child pornography.

~~~ SUBJECT NUMBER 1.  JAMES GARSIDE

James Garside is a citizen of and resident of the United Kingdom.  Also
known as "pagga," James has no employment and refuses to obtain same.  James
Garside used to live in a "council house," which is the English way to say
"welfare."  He has since moved into private accommodation but his rent and
utilities money still comes from welfare cheques.  James Garside has entered
into an agreement with his new landlord to lie to the welfare system about
the cost of his rent which enables him to defraud the Crown to the tune of
Â£350 per month.  This enables him to purchase Apple Computer products for
examination.  As James Garside has no legitimate employment, he spends most
of his time causing trouble for Apple Computer by finding ways to circumvent
their security measures and feeding rumors about Apple into the Internet.

James Garside is a danger to all computer and Internet users and it is
urgent that an INTERPOL RED NOTICE be issued to bring him into custody.
Much more dangerous than Gary McKinnon, James Garside has the potential,
motivation, and ability to cause millions of dollars of financial losses to
Apple Computer.

James Garside speaks fluent Arabic and has ties to the Islamic Republic of
Iran and is an immediate flight risk.  He possesses dangerous knives and has
stated on IRC that he is willing to use his welfare money to flee to Iran if
he comes under police pressure for any reason.  He has no meaningful
possessions, or friends apart from the Internet, so he has nothing to lose
by leaving everything in England while he escapes to Iran.

~~~ SUBJECT NUMBER 2.  LUCIO ANDRES ILLANES ALBORNOZ

Lucio Albornoz is a citizen of and resident of the Federal Republic of
Germany.  He has lived in Latin America in the past and recently lived in
Hamburg.  Albornoz is known as "vxp" or "vap0r."  This subject has been
nothing but trouble on the Internet.  Lacking much in the way of technical
knowledge, Lucio Albornoz's contribution to "Sand Net" consists of spreading
false information and rumors on the Internet and disrupting the operations
of business and financial websites using techniques such as floods of bogus
information and "DDoS."  Lucio Albornoz then makes ransom demands against
the owners of such websites.  Lucio Albornoz develops stashes of "proxies"
for "Sand Net" members to use in order to prevent discovery of their true
identities while committing these computer crimes.  While lacking in the
technical skills department, Albornoz fully participates in the planning of
crimes to be committed by "Sand Net."

Albornoz, like Garside, refuses to obtain legitimate employment and lives
off the German welfare system which he "qualified" for by submitting false
statements to the welfare bureau.  Albornoz is known to speak fluent Spanish
and German and has ties to Chile and Peru.  Albornoz is also an immediate
flight risk.  He does not have the means to accumulate meaningful
possessions, and like Garside, has no local friends or associates and
nothing to leave behind in Germany when he flees.  Albornoz spends most of
his ransom money on prostitutes and illegal drugs to avoid raising suspicion
of the tax authorities.

Lucio Albornoz is a danger to all computer and Internet users and it is
urgent that an INTERPOL RED NOTICE be issued to bring him into custody.
Much more dangerous than Markus Hess, Albornoz has the potention, motivation
and ability to cause millions of dollars of financial losses to Apple
Computer.

I am pleased to be of service as a Confidential Informant to all law
enforcement agencies worldwide.

Regards

Brian Hatfield

Content of type "text/html" skipped

_______________________________________________
Full-Disclosure - We believe in it.
Charter: http://lists.grok.org.uk/full-disclosure-charter.html
Hosted and sponsored by Secunia - http://secunia.com/
