
Date: Sun, 24 Aug 2014 22:51:08 +0200
From: Robert Scheck <robert@...oraproject.org>
To: Open Source Security Mailing List <oss-security@...ts.openwall.com>
Subject: CVE request: Multiple incorrect default permissions in Zarafa

Hello,

I discovered that the Zarafa Collaboration Platform has multiple incorrect
default permissions (CWE-276):

1. In order to fix CVE-2014-0103, Zarafa introduced constants PASSWORD_KEY
and PASSWORD_IV in /etc/zarafa/webaccess-ajax/config.php (Zarafa WebAccess)
and /etc/zarafa/webapp/config.php (Zarafa WebApp), both are the upstream
path names of a default installation, downstream names might be different.
Both files have default permissions of root:root and 644, thus decryption
of the symmetric encrypted passwords in the on-disk PHP session files is
possible again (similar like initially described in CVE-2014-0103). Affects
Zarafa WebAccess >= 7.1.10, Zarafa WebApp >= 1.6 beta.

2. The log directory /var/log/zarafa/ is shipped by default with root:root
and 755 and all created log files by the Zarafa daemons have by default
root:root and 644. This is leaking (depending on the log level of the given
service) only e.g. subject, sender/recipient, message-id, SMTP queue id of
in- and outbound e-mails but might be even a cleartext protocol dump of
IMAP, POP3, CalDAV and iCal as well (including possible credentials) to any
local system user. Affects Zarafa >= 5.00.

3. The directories /var/lib/zarafa-webaccess/tmp/ (Zarafa WebAccess) and
/var/lib/zarafa-webapp/tmp/ (Zarafa WebApp) are read- and writable by the
Apache system user by default - but also world readable for local system
users (e.g. apache:apache and 755 on RHEL). Thus all the temporary session
data such as uploaded e-mail attachments can be read-only accessed because
all created files below previously mentioned directories have permissions
644, too. Upstream path names changed over the time and releases. Affects
Zarafa WebAccess >= 4.1, Zarafa WebApp (any version).

4. The optional (but proprietary) license daemon /usr/bin/zarafa-licensed
runs by default with root permissions, the subscription/license key is put
into '/etc/zarafa/license/*'. The license files are recommented (according
upstream documentation) to be created using echo(1) which usually leads to
root:root and 644. But the parent directory /etc/zarafa/license/ is shipped
by default with root:root and 755. As result the key files can be accessed
and copied by any local system user. Affects Zarafa >= 4.1.

As of writing Zarafa doesn't seem to have built-in permission checks (like
e.g. fetchmail(1) has), too.


With kind regards

Robert Scheck
-- 
Fedora Project * Fedora Ambassador * Fedora Mentor * Fedora Packager

Content of type "application/pgp-signature" skipped
