
Date: Wed, 12 Jul 2017 13:12:20 -0300
From: Francisco Amato <famato@...obytesec.com>
To: bugtraq@...urityfocus.com, fulldisclosure@...lists.org, 
 websecurity@...ts.webappsec.org, pen-test@...urityfocus.com, 
 webappsec@...urityfocus.com, dailydave@...ts.immunityinc.com
Subject: [FD] ekoparty: Call for Papers 2017! Open!

ekoparty security conference Training September 25-26, 2017 Conference
September 27-29, 2017 Buenos Aires, Argentina Submit at:
http://cfp.ekoparty.org We are really proud to announce the thirteenth
edition of the Ekoparty Security Conference. Once again, in this unique
event, security specialist from all over Latin America and the World will
have the chance to get acquainted with the most important researches of the
year. Ekoparty has become the most important technical conference in Latin
America, which keeps offering the deepest knowledges in the field. In this
year's edition of ekoparty, we are expecting to bring together more than
3000 security specialists. During the 3-day high voltage lectures, you also
can enjoy activities like our famous LOCKPICKING VILLAGE, the WIFI ATTACK
LABORATORY, a WARDRIVING around the City, free WORKSHOPS, the most
important CAPTURE THE FLAG in Latin America, not forgetting of course, our
amazing parties! Again in this thirteenth edition: * ekoparty will
recognize the trajectory of Latin American researchers, as also their
greatest researches. Stay tuned! The ekoparty organization team is kindly
inviting anyone who is interested in showing and sharing his researches
and/or developments in the field of Information Security. **Suggested
Topics** Topics of interest include, but are not limited to, the following:
- Topics of interest include, but are not limited to, the following: - 0
days - Satellite Hacking - Web Security - Privacy - Embedded Systems
Technologies - GSM, GPRS and CDMA Security - RFID Security - VoIP Security
- Lockpicking - Trumping - Wireless Security - Exploitation - IPv6 Security
- Attack and Defense Techniques - Reverse Engineering - Application
Security, Testing, Fuzzing - Code Auditing - Virtualization Security -
Malicious Code - Databases Security - Viruses, Worms, and Trojans -
e-crime, Phishing and Botnets - Malware, Crimeware - e-voting madness -
Banking Security - Phreaking - Hardware hacking - Cryptography - Forensics
& AntiForensics * All the lectures are going to be simultaneously
translated breaking any language barrier. Consideration will be given first
to ORIGINAL work and content that has not been duplicated at any other
security or networking conference prior to September 1st, 2017. Submissions
with technical papers attached will be given preference. **submission
types** Full length talks (50 minutes) Turbo talks (20 minutes) Hands-on
Workshops (120 minutes) Trainings (1 or 2 days) * Speakers including a
Hands-on Workshop proposal earn extra points in the CFP. **important
dates** June 16 - CFP is Open July 31 - CFP is Closed August 15 -
Notification to Authors September 25 & 26 - ekoparty trainings September
27, 28 & 29 - ekoparty security conference **speakers privileges**
Round-trip airfare ticket up to 2.000USD Five star hotel accommodation (3
nights) VIP cocktail for speakers/sponsors Extra ticket to the conference
**trainer privileges** 50% net profit of the Training Round-trip airfare
ticket up to 2.000USD Five star hotel accommodation (3 nights) VIP cocktail
for speakers/sponsors Ticket to the conference **extra activities** We are
looking for new activities to be performed in parallel to the conference.
Send us your proposal to: organizacion [at] ekoparty.org Submit your
abstract here: http://cfp.ekoparty.org Questions? Email cfp [at] ekoparty
dot org

_______________________________________________
Sent through the Full Disclosure mailing list
https://nmap.org/mailman/listinfo/fulldisclosure
Web Archives & RSS: http://seclists.org/fulldisclosure/
