
Date: Fri, 18 Jul 2014 06:16:09 -0700
From: coderman <coderman@...il.com>
To: Full Disclosure <fulldisclosure@...lists.org>, 
	liberationtech <liberationtech@...ts.stanford.edu>,
	cpunks <cypherpunks@...nks.org>, oss-security@...ts.openwall.com
Subject: [FD] Strong Security Processes Require Strong Privacy Protections

"Strong Security Processes Require Strong Privacy Protections"

A request for all security conscious organizations handling
vulnerability reports to deploy privacy enhancing technologies.

---

With the Snowden disclosures and Google's Project Zero on the minds of
security professionals everywhere, it is time to evaluate one more
aspect of this renewed focus on 0day and targeted attacks:
vulnerability submission to vendors. [0][1]

Software vulnerabilities of use to nation states and espionage
organizations are recognized as a threat to privacy and basic human
rights. Their impact no longer dismissable or discounted given
evidence of misuse. I will not discuss hardware vulnerabilities in
this treatment as they entail different considerations and
constraints. [2]

Reporting vulnerabilities of this nature in turn requires strong
privacy protections commensurate with the five and six digit monetary
values they command, and the adversaries intent on discouraging their
discovery or mitigation. [3][4]

---

Therefore, any organization handling vulnerability reports must
support strong privacy for vulnerability submission. This is mandatory
even if most or all issues received via this channel are not 0day, not
high value, and entail very little risk to users.

The characteristics of a strong private reporting method are:

- Email must not be used. In the best circumstances email leaks too
much information. In common situations it is passed around clear text,
trivially interfered with, and winds through software with huge
usability and vulnerability problems. Email for initial security
vulnerability reporting must cease immediately. [5][6]

- Public web systems for vulnerability reporting must not be used.
Like email, this leaks too much information and is vulnerable to a
wide array of attacks destroying any privacy intended. [7][8]

- Submission of reports via hidden site required. This has become
fashionable in media organizations as the "secure drop" for
whistleblowers, and it is equally apropriate for vulnerability
reporting. This significantly raises the cost of surveilling a
vulnerability reporting service, and ensures that passive interception
of reported vulnerabilities is impossible. [9]

- Encryption of submitted reports required. PGP and GPG are wonderful
tools, despite encrypted email being a dismal failure. While the
hidden drop may protect the privacy of the reporter, encryption of the
report content to specific vulnerability researchers' keys ensures
privacy to the receiver. A compromise of the hidden site must not lead
to access of reported vulnerabilities. [10]

- Submitter anonymity the default. Submissions and communication must
accomodate an anonymous identity. If a researcher wishes to claim
credit they must opt-in and provide additional information. No
psuedonymous account requirements, no key linking across submissions.

- Obfuscated disclosure should be available if desired. Capturing 0day
in the wild used for espionage or cyber effects is a rare event.
Publicly disclosing when, where, and how you obtained such captures
ensures you're likely never to see any others. Researchers in position
to observe and inspect such events should be able to report the
vulnerabilities without credit and without indicating the origin. A
vendor could provide a "cover story" for how the vulnerability was
discovered internally, to best protect sources' ability to continue to
discover these types of weaponized exploits in the wild.

Finally, it goes without saying that this privacy applies during
reporting and mitigation phases of defect resolution. Once a patch is
prepared and public the details of the vulnerability should be public
as well, via email list, public blog, or any other useful medium.

---

As participants in the security industry it behooves us all to set an
example for others and to demonstrate a committment to security and
privacy via action.

Security conscious organizations handling vulnerability reports can
support strong privacy and send a clear message deploying private
reporting methods described above.

Security researchers must demand strong privacy from organizations
they collaborate with, even in the most trivial or minor of
circumstances, so that infrequent severe vulnerabilities may also be
reported in confidence.

Privacy is a basic human right we must all support. Let's demonstrate
our support by using privacy enhancing technologies to resolve risks
to privacy!


best regards,



0. "The NSA Revelations All in One Chart"
 https://projects.propublica.org/nsa-grid/

1. "Announcing Project Zero"
 No link as the announcement is only supported over HTTP; attempt
HTTPS and you're redirected to plain-text. This is an embarassment
that should be fixed, Google Project Zero!  (the other plain-text
sites below have not unreasonable exuses ;)

2. "New technologies are radically advancing our freedoms but they are
also enabling unparalleled invasions of privacy"
 https://www.eff.org/issues/privacy

3. "A Declaration of Cyber-War"
 http://www.vanityfair.com/culture/features/2011/04/stuxnet-201104
'''On July 15, the day Stuxnet’s existence became widely known, the
Web sites of two of the world’s top mailing lists for newsletters on
industrial-control-systems security fell victim to
distributed-denial-of-service attacks...'''

4. "The Real Story of Stuxnet"
 http://spectrum.ieee.org/telecom/security/the-real-story-of-stuxnet
'''Just as Kaspersky’s engineers were tricking Gauss into
communicating with their own servers, those very servers suddenly went
down,...'''

5. "Universal Email Encryption Specification"
 http://ritter.vg/blog-uee_email_encryption.html

6. "Pond" (not like email)
 https://pond.imperialviolet.org/tech.html

7. "Bullrun (decryption program)"
 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bullrun_%28decryption_program%29

8. "How secure is HTTPS today? How often is it attacked?"
 https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2011/10/how-secure-https-today

9. "How the NSA Attacks Tor/Firefox Users With QUANTUM and FOXACID"
 https://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2013/10/how_the_nsa_att.html
 (this is what a hard to attack system looks like, and keeping
disclosure entirely within the network from clients to hidden sites
amplifies the difficulty significantly.)

10. "The Rise of the Middle and the Future of End-to-End: Reflections
on the Evolution of the Internet Architecture"
 https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3724.txt

_______________________________________________
Sent through the Full Disclosure mailing list
http://nmap.org/mailman/listinfo/fulldisclosure
Web Archives & RSS: http://seclists.org/fulldisclosure/